[Back to questions](../README.md)

## 0c21: *Properties*


\begin{question}{.}\label{question:houses}
Suppose you have been contracted to build a property catalougue application
for an estate agent.  The application should manage the following types of properties:

\begin{itemize}
\item houses, which are either detached, semidetached or terraced
\item bungalows, which are one storey houses and are also either detached, semidetached or terraced
\item flats
\item maisonettes, which are flats that take up more than one floor of a house
\end{itemize}

Write a set of skeleton Java classes and/or interfaces to model the entities in this
application domain.  The idea is to create appropriate classes and interfaces, and define the
relationship between them.  You do \emph{not} need to add any methods to these classes/interfaces,
and you do not need to add any fields \emph{unless} you believe the relationship between the
classes should be captured through composition.

\vspace{1mm}\noindent\textbf{Hint:} at the top of your inheritance hierarchy there should be a class, \lstinline{Property},
from which all properties are descended.

Explain the choices behind your design.

Next, write a \lstinline{PropertyCollection} class.  An instance of \lstinline{PropertyCollection} should
hold a set of properties.  \lstinline{PropertyCollection} should support these methods (at least; you can add
corresponding methods for other property types if you wish):

\begin{lstlisting}
// Add a property to the collection
public void addProperty(Property p);

// Return the set of all houses in the collection
public Set<House> getHouses();

// Return the set of all bungalows in the collection
public Set<Bungalow> getBungalows();

// Return the set of all flats in the collection
public Set<Flat> getFlats();

// Return the set of all maisonettes in the collection
public Set<Maisonette> getMaisonettes();
		
// Return the set of all terraced houses in the collection
public Set<TeracedHouse> getTerracedHouses();
\end{lstlisting}

There are two ways you can implement these methods.  One way is to use \lstinline{instanceof}
to test the type of each property.  The other way is to add (possibly abstract) methods \lstinline{isHouse()}, \lstinline{isBungalow()},
\lstinline{isFlat()}, etc., to \lstinline{Property} and then override these methods in the various property subclasses
to return appropriate boolean values.  Explain the pros and cons of each approach, decide which to use, and write a justification
of your choice.

Finally, write a \lstinline{PropertyDemo} class with a \lstinline{main} method.
The \lstinline{main} method should create a property collection, and add to it
the following:

\begin{itemize}
\item 1000 semi-detached houses
\item 1000 terraced houses
\item 100 detached houses
\item 100 semi-detached bungalows
\item 100 flats
\item 20 maisonettes
\item 20 detached bungalows
\item 20 terraced bungalows
\end{itemize}
%
where the houses and flats are not bungalows or maisonettes, respectively.

After this, the \lstinline{main} method should use the methods you have
implemented in \lstinline{PropertyCollection} to check (using assertions) that the collection
contains:

\begin{itemize}
\item 2240 houses
\item 140 bungalows
\item 120 flats
\item 20 maisonettes
\item 1020 terraced houses
\end{itemize}
%
where bungalows and maisonettes are regarded as being houses and flats,
respectively.
\end{question}
