[Back to questions](../README.md)

## 1171: *Cloning graphs*

TODO: ack Boris Motik.

\begin{question}{Cloning graphs}\label{question:cloning}
Consider the following implementation of a graph node:

\lstinputlisting{solutions/src/sheet5/question10/original/GraphNode.java}

Your task is to extend \lstinline{GraphNode} with \emph{cloning} facilities.  Remember that
\lstinline{Object} provides a \lstinline{protected} method, \lstinline{clone}.  If invoked on
an object that does not implement the \lstinline{Cloneable} interface, this method throws a
\lstinline{CloneNotSupported} exception.  Otherwise, it creates a new object that is bitwise
identical to the original, and returns a reference to it.

What are the implications of  making a bitwise identical copy of an object?  In particular,
what does this imply for reference fields of the object?  In the cloned object, will such
fields point to fresh objects that have been recursively cloned?

Your implementation of \lstinline{clone} for \lstinline{GraphNode} should create a ``semi-deep''
copy of a \lstinline{GraphNode}.  That is, the node object and all its (directly and indirectly)
reachable children should be cloned, but the objects representing node keys should not be cloned.
Your implementation should correctly handle cyclic graphs.

\vspace{1mm}\noindent\textbf{Step 1.} \emph{Warm up.}  To understand the \lstinline{Cloneable}
interface, add a public method \lstinline{foo} to graph node.  This method should simply call the \lstinline{clone()}
method from \lstinline{Object}.  You should find that this method does not compile, because \lstinline{clone()} may
throw a \lstinline{CloneNotSupportedException}, which is a \emph{caught} exception.  Add a \lstinline{throws} clause
to the method.  Now, in a separate class, write a main method that creates a \lstinline{GraphNode} and calls \lstinline{foo} on the resulting
object.  Surround this call in a try-catch block to catch a \lstinline{CloneNotSupported} exception, if it is thrown.
When you run \lstinline{main}, you should find that such an exception \emph{is} thrown.  This is because \lstinline{GraphNode}
does not implement the \lstinline{Cloneable} interface.

\vspace{1mm}\noindent\textbf{Step 2.} Make \lstinline{GraphNode} implement the \lstinline{Cloneable} interface.  Notice
that you need do nothing other than write \lstinline{implements Cloneable} for this purpose.  In particular, \lstinline{Cloneable}
does not specify any methods.  Perhaps surprisingly, it does not specify the \lstinline{clone()} method: this comes from \lstinline{Object}.
Implementing \lstinline{Cloneable} simply says: ``I, the developer of this class, am agreeable to the class being cloned!''.  Now you should
find that when you run your main method, no exception is thrown.

\vspace{1mm}\noindent\textbf{Step 3.} Delete the method \lstinline{foo}.  Instead, try to call \lstinline{clone()} directly
on a \lstinline{GraphNode} from \lstinline{main}.  You should find that your program does not compile.  This is due to \lstinline{clone}
having the following signature in \lstinline{Object}:

\begin{lstlisting}
protected Object clone() throws CloneNotSupportedException;
\end{lstlisting}

Why is this a problem?  Why was it possible to call \lstinline{clone()} from within \lstinline{foo()}?

\vspace{1mm}\noindent\textbf{Step 4.} \emph{The meat of the question.}
In \lstinline{GraphNode}, override \lstinline{clone()}, changing the visibility of the method to \lstinline{public}.  The return
type of your overriding \lstinline{clone()} method should be as \emph{specific} as possible, and if possible your method should
not throw any exceptions.  There are some hints at the end of the sheet that may help you in implementing this method.  The challenge
here is to make sure your method correctly handles cyclic graphs.

\vspace{1mm}\noindent\textbf{Step 5.} Test that your cloning functionality works: all assertions in the following test program
should pass:

\begin{scriptsize}
\begin{verbatim}
public static void main(String[] args) {

  // Make some nodes
  GraphNode<String> original = new GraphNode<String>();
  original.setKey("Hello");
  GraphNode<String> child1 = new GraphNode<String>();
  child1.setKey("Child 1");
  GraphNode<String> child2 = new GraphNode<String>();
  child1.setKey("Child 2");

  // Join them up
  original.addSuccessor(child1);
  original.addSuccessor(child2);
  child1.addSuccessor(original); // Creates a cycle
  child2.addSuccessor(original); // Creates a cycle

  // Clone original
  GraphNode<String> clone = original.clone();

  // Check that the clone uses distinct nodes
  assert original != clone;
  assert original.getSuccessor(0) != clone.getSuccessor(0);
  assert original.getSuccessor(1) != clone.getSuccessor(1);
  assert original.getSuccessor(0).getSuccessor(0) != clone.getSuccessor(0).getSuccessor(0);
  assert original.getSuccessor(1).getSuccessor(0) != clone.getSuccessor(1).getSuccessor(0);
	
  // Check that original has cycles
  assert original.getSuccessor(0).getSuccessor(0) == original;
  assert original.getSuccessor(1).getSuccessor(0) == original;

  // Check that clone has corresponding cycles
  assert clone.getSuccessor(0).getSuccessor(0) == clone;
  assert clone.getSuccessor(1).getSuccessor(0) == clone;

  // Check that original and clone share same keys
  assert original.getKey() == clone.getKey();
  assert original.getSuccessor(0).getKey() == clone.getSuccessor(0).getKey();
  assert original.getSuccessor(1).getKey() == clone.getSuccessor(1).getKey();

}
\end{verbatim}
\end{scriptsize}

\end{question}

\noindent\textbf{Hints for \questionref{cloning}.}  It should be possible to give \lstinline{clone()} the following signature:

\begin{lstlisting}
@Override
public GraphNode<E> clone();
\end{lstlisting}

Think about why this is much more useful than the signature provided by \lstinline{Object}.  Also think about why it is OK for this method to
override the \lstinline{Object} version, even though it has a different signature.  Why does this method not throw a \lstinline{CloneNotSupportedException}?

In implementing \lstinline{clone()}, it will be useful to have a private helper method, \lstinline{internalClone()}.  This method should use
\lstinline{super.clone()} to create a straightforward clone of the graph node.  This takes care of copying the graph node's key.  After making
such a clone, \lstinline{internalClone} should reset the \lstinline{successors} field of the resulting object.  When you call \lstinline{super.clone()},
the compiler thinks that a \lstinline{CloneNotSupportedException} may be thrown.  You know that this will not happen---why?  Because you know it cannot
happen, you can surround the call with a try-catch block, and be confident that the catch block will never be reached.  To keep the compiler happy,
the catch block has to return something; think about what special value will do.  You will also find that \lstinline{super.clone()} returns an
\lstinline{Object}, which you will need to cast appropriately.

Now to implement \lstinline{Clone}, you can keep a map from old nodes to new nodes:

\begin{lstlisting}
Map<GraphNode<E>, GraphNode<E>> oldToNew = new HashMap<GraphNode<E>, GraphNode<E>>();
\end{lstlisting}

First, do a depth-first search of the graph rooted at the current node.  This can be achieved by creating a \lstinline{Deque<GraphNode<E>>}
object, and using it as a \emph{stack}.  Push \lstinline{this} on to the stack.  Then while the stack is not empty, pop an element, \lstinline{old} say, from the stack.
If \lstinline{oldToNew} does not contain the element as a key, use \lstinline{internalClone} to make a clone, \lstinline{newNode} say.  Put the
pair \lstinline{(old, newNode)} into the \lstinline{oldToNew} map.  Now push each successor of \lstinline{old} on to the stack.

Once this process has been completed, you have a new node for each graph node.  However, the successor fields of the new nodes have not been set up.
To do this, you should iterate through the \emph{key set} of \lstinline{oldToNew}.  For each old node that is a key, consider all of its successors.
In each case, if old node \lstinline{n} has successor \lstinline{m}, you should add \lstinline{oldToNew.get(m)} as a successor of \lstinline{oldToNew.get(n)}.

This sort of cycle-aware programming is difficult.  Give the exercise a good go, and if you get stuck take a close look at the model answer.
