[Back to questions](../README.md)

## 1486: *String stack*

TODO: was introductory text.  The remainder of this sheet focuses on building collection classes for some specific types,
similar to the collection classes found in the Java Collections Framework.
This provides a good illustration of how powerful interfaces and abstract classes can be.
TODO: don't mention "sheet" In the next sheet we will look at how to make these collections \emph{generic}.


\noindent\textbf{Step 1.} Write a class \lstinline{StringStackArray} to represent a stack of strings,
storing the strings as an array of up to 100 elements.  Your class should support the following constructor and methods:

\begin{lstlisting}
// Creates an empty string stack
public StringStackArray();

// If the stack is full, does nothing.
// Otherwise, pushes the given String on to the top of the stack
public void push(String s);

// If the stack is empty, leaves the stack unchanged and returns
// null.  Otherwise, removes the string that is on the top of
// the stack and returns it
public String pop();

// Returns true iff the stack is empty	
public boolean isEmpty();
\end{lstlisting}

\noindent\textbf{Step 2.} Write another class, \lstinline{StringStackList}, which also implements a stack
of strings, but uses an object of the interface type \lstinline{List<String>} to represent the contents of the stack.
When this object is instantiated, an \lstinline{ArrayList<String>} should be used.
The class should support the same methods as \lstinline{StringStackArray}, with an equivalent
constructor, except that there is now no maximum number of elements for the stack.

\vspace{1mm}
\noindent\textbf{Hint:} Do not be surprised if your implementation of \lstinline{StringStackList} is pretty
trivial.  In particular, you should be able to implement \lstinline{push()} and \lstinline{isEmpty()} using
one line of Java each, by simply delegating the behaviour to appropriate methods of \lstinline{List}.

\vspace{1mm}\noindent\textbf{Step 3.} Notice that \lstinline{StringStackArray} and \lstinline{StringStackList}
provide the same methods.  Make this explicit by creating an \emph{interface} called \lstinline{StringStack}.
The \lstinline{StringStack} interface should specify the following methods:

\begin{lstlisting}
public void push(String s);

public String pop();

public boolean isEmpty();
\end{lstlisting}

Modify \lstinline{StringStackArray} and \lstinline{StringStackList} so that they each \emph{implement}
the \lstinline{StringStackInterface}.

\vspace{1mm}\noindent\textbf{Step 4.}
Now write a \lstinline{Demo} class with a static method:

\begin{lstlisting}
public static void transferStacks(StringStack dst, StringStack src);
\end{lstlisting}
%
which should transfer the contents of \lstinline{src} to \lstinline{dst}
by popping elements from \lstinline{src} and pushing them on to \lstinline{dst}
until \lstinline{src} is empty.  Implement \lstinline{transferStacks} to have
the desired effect.

\vspace{1mm}\noindent\textbf{Step 5.} Write a \lstinline{main} method that creates two \lstinline{StringStack}
instances: one a \lstinline{StringStackArray}, the other a \lstinline{StringStackList}.
The \lstinline{main} method should push some strings on to the first stack, then invoke \lstinline{transferStacks} to copy
the first stack to the second stack.  \lstinline{main} should then assert that the first stack is empty, and
display the contents of the second stack by popping its elements one by one.

What is powerful and elegant about the \lstinline{transferStacks} method?!

\vspace{1mm}\noindent\textbf{Step 6.} Finally, modify \lstinline{StringStackList} so that it uses a \lstinline{LinkedList<String>} instead of an
\lstinline{ArrayList<String>} to represent its elements.  If you have implemented your classes correctly
this change should be \emph{trivial}.  Its simplicity illustrates the power of encapsulation.

