[Back to questions](../README.md)

## 1ae9: *Reusing immutable value objects*

\textbf{Important note:} This question concerns optimising a piece of software for memory-efficiency.  The purpose here, as usual, is to expose you to more of Java, and in particular to get you to think about heap memory usage.  In general, it is not a good idea to speculatively optimise software, either for performance or memory-efficiency.  Such optimisations should be guided by \emph{profiling}: testing a piece of software on real data to work out where the efficiency bottlenecks are.  Optimisations make code harder to understand and maintain.  So, while we will explore an optimisation in this questions, the message is not that you should apply this kind of optimisation by default.

Consider the following \lstinline{Point} class, which is very similar to the \lstinline{Point}
class you created and worked with in Sheets 2 and 3:

\lstinputlisting{solutions/src/sheet4/question10/original/Point.java}

Observe that instances of \lstinline{Point} are \emph{immutable}.  We sometimes call immutable objects \emph{value objects} because they be used in a similar way
to primitive values: because they cannot change, they do not suffer from problems of aliasing that are relevant for mutable objects.

Suppose an application is likely to create a vast number of \lstinline{Point} objects, but that many of these objects are likely to
be identical.  For efficient memory usage, in this case it might be preferable to keep a pool of points that have already been
created, and when asked for a new point to return a matching point in the pool, if one exists.

Your task is to implement this scenario.  Make the constructor of \lstinline{Point} private, so that clients cannot create points directly.
In \lstinline{Point}, declare a static method, \lstinline{makePoint}, with the following signature:

\begin{lstlisting}
public static Point makePoint(int x, int y, int z);
\end{lstlisting}

This static method will be the single place where points can be created; such a method is called a \emph{factory method}.

The aim of \lstinline{makePoint} is to cache all points that have been previously created.  If \lstinline{makePoint} is invoked
with the coordinates of a point that already exists, a reference to the existing point will be returned.  This can save memory
by avoiding the client holding references to many identical points stored in distinct objects.

To achieve the desired effect of \lstinline{makePoint}, equip the \lstinline{Point} with a private static field that maps points to
points:

\begin{lstlisting}
private static Map<Point, Point> pool = new HashMap<Point, Point>();
\end{lstlisting}

This makes use of the \lstinline{Map} interface from \lstinline{java.util}, and one of its implementing classes, \lstinline{HashMap}.
Somewhat strangely, we are going to use \lstinline{pool} to map a \lstinline{Point} object reference to itself!  You may ask, why
can't we just use a \lstinline{Set}?  The reason is that we will wish to ask: ``does the pool contain a \lstinline{Point} that
is \lstinline{equal} to some new \lstinline{Point}?'', and if the answer is ``yes'', we wish to get the original \lstinline{Point} contained in the pool.  While a \lstinline{Set} would allow us to ask the question, it does not provide an efficient way for us to get at the reference to the original \lstinline{Point}.\footnote{We could iterate through the whole set until we find the reference of interest, but this would be highly inefficient.}

Your implementation of \lstinline{makePoint} should do the following:

\begin{itemize}

\item Construct a new \lstinline{Point} with the given coordinates, and store the result in a reference variable (say \lstinline{p})

\item Test whether \lstinline{pool} maps \lstinline{p} to some point.  This can be ascertained by asking whether \lstinline{pool.get(p)} is \lstinline{null}

\item If \lstinline{pool} \emph{does} map \lstinline{p} to some point then \lstinline{makePoint} should return the \lstinline{Point} to which \lstinline{p} is mapped.  As a result, the new object to which \lstinline{p} points becomes unreachable, and will be garbage-collected

\item If \lstinline{pool} does \emph{not} map \lstinline{p} to some point then \lstinline{makePoint} should add \lstinline{p} to the pool by using the \lstinline{put(Point, Point)} method of \lstinline{Map} to map \lstinline{p} to itself.  After this, \lstinline{p} should be returned

\end{itemize}

To convince yourself that your implementation is indeed saving memory, write two \lstinline{main} methods.  Each should create a list of points, and add 10 identical points to the list.  The first program should use the original \lstinline{Point} class, creating 10 distinct points.  The second should use the new \lstinline{Point} class with its \lstinline{makePoint} factory method.  In the first instance you should write a method that checks whether the references in your list are all different.  In the second case you should write a method that checks whether the references in your list are all the same.



\end{question}
