[Back to questions](../README.md)

## 336b: *Evolving the Set interface*

This question involves adding *default* methods to the `GenericSet` interface that you designed in [question b401](b401.md).

*Note:* if you had trouble completing [question b401](b401.md), you have two choices:

* You could attempt this question by starting with the [question b401](b401.md) sample solution;

* You could add default methods to the `IntSet` interface of [question 8a61](8a61.md), rather than to its generic version.

Let's suppose that our `GenericSet` interface has become popular, and that we now regret not having included some additional methods when we designed the interface.  We'll go through how to use default methods to fill these omissions.

1. Add a `default` method to the `GenericSet` interface called `addAll`.  The `addAll` method have `void` return type, and should take an array, `items`, of type `E` as its single parameter, where `E` is the generic parameter associated with `GenericSet` (use `Integer` or `int` instead of `E` if you are working on `IntSet` rather than `GenericSet`).

   For each element `item` in `items`, the `addAll` method should use the `add` method to add `items` to the set.

2. In a `Demo` class, write a main method that creates a `MemoryEfficientGenericSet` of integers and a `SpeedEfficientGenericSet` of integers, creates some small arrays of integers, and uses `addAll` to add the arrays of integers to each of the sets.  Run your `main` method to check that it behaves appropriately.

    Now change your `main` method so that it creates some *large* arrays of integers, and uses `addAll` to add the large arrays of integers to each of the sets.

    (You could look at `Demo.java` from the sample solution for some example code here; see `solutions/code/tutorialquestions/question336b/Demo.java`.)

    You will probably find that `addAll` takes an excessively long time to add a large array of integers to a `MemoryEfficientGenericSet`.  Think about why this is.

3. The default implementation of `addAll` works for any set, but as demonstrated in step 2 is not efficient for `MemoryEfficientGenericSet`s.  Override `addAll` in `MemoryEfficientGenericSet` with an implementation that does *not* invoke the default `addAll` implementation, but instead uses a `HashSet` local variable to keep track of the contents of the set.  This hash set should be initialized with the contents of the `MemoryEfficientGenericSet`.  Then, for each element of `items` (the parameter to `addAll`), you should first check whether the element is in the hash set.  If it is, you should move on to the next element; otherwise you should add it directly to the elements of the `MemoryEfficientGenericSet` (without going through the `add` method), and also add it to the hash set of elements that are known to be in the set.

    You should find that, with this specific implementation of `addAll`, the code in your `main` method behaves in an efficient manner.  Think hard to make sure you understand why this is the case.

4. Add one more default method to `GenericSet`.  This method should be called `asUnmodifiableSet`.  It should take no parameters, and should return a `GenericSet<E>`.  The generic set that is returned should be a version of the original set where any methods that could cause the set to be modified are replaced with methods that throw an `UnsupportedOperationException`.

    There are two ways you could approach this.  The simple, but somewhat verbose way, is to make a new class, `UnmodifiableGenericSet` that implements the `GenericSet<E>` interface.  This class should have a single field of type `GenericSet<E>` representing the set for which an unmodifiable version is being created; this field could be called `wrapped`.  The new class should implement all of the required methods of `GenericSet<E>`.  The non-mutating methods should be implemented by delegation to `wrapped`: invoking the corresponding method, with the same parameters (if any) on `wrapped`, and returning the result (if any) returned by said method.  The mutating methods should be implemented by simply throwing an `UnsupportedOperationException`.

    Recall from [question 85bb](85bb.md)) that we avoided the need for writing a fully separate iterator class by using an *inner class*.  It is not possible for an interface to have an inner class (it can have a *nested class*, but not an inner class; read online about nested classes to understand the difference).

    However, we can use an *anonymous inner class* in the implementation of `asUnmodifiableSet`, by having the body of `asUnmodifiableSet` look like this:

        return new GenericSet<E>() {
          @Override
          public void add(E item) {
            throw new UnsupportedOperationException("Attempt to add to an unmodifiable set.");
          }
          ... /* Implementations of other methods */ ...
        };

    This returns an instance of a new class that implements the `GenericSet<E>` interface, implementing its methods according to the method implementations given between the `{` and `}` following `new GenericSet<E>`.

    If you follow this approach, your anonymous inner class will need to call methods of the `GenericSet<E>` that it is defined inside.  This can be achieved by using the syntax `GenericSet.this`.  So, for example, in a method inside the anonymous inner class, `isEmpty()` would call the `isEmpty` method of the anonymous inner class, while `GenericSet.this.isEmpty()` would call the `isEmpty` method of the object implementing the outer `GenericSet<E>` interface.

    Try both implementation approaches -- using an explicit `UnmodifiableGenericSet` class and an anonymous inner class, and see which you prefer.  Beyond the amount of code you have to write, can you see any pros and cons of the two approaches?

5. Adapt your `main` method so that it uses `asUnmodifiableSet` to create unmodifiable versions of some sets, and check that the unmodifiable sets behave just like the sets that they wrap if non-mutator methods are called, and that appropriate exceptions are thrown if mutator methods are called.  Notice that, due to the use of a default method, you can work with unmodifiable versions of `MemoryEfficientGenericSet`s and `SpeedEfficientGenericSet`s without having had to modify these classes.
