[Back to questions](../README.md)

## 5235: *Equality between points*

\begin{question}{.}\label{question:equality}
%
Recall class \lstinline{Point} from \questionref{points}.  If you construct two \lstinline{Point} objects
with identical coordinates, should they be regarded as \emph{equal}?  This depends on the context in which
you use \lstinline{Point}, but very likely the answer is \emph{yes}: instances of \lstinline{Point}
are immutable \emph{value} objects, so that if two \lstinline{Point}s look identical, they should be regarded
as the same.\footnote{Remember that we call such objects \emph{value} objects because they have some of the
attractive properties of primitive values: in particular, aliasing of value objects is not problematic.  However,
value objects \emph{are still objects}, and comparing two identical value objects with \lstinline{==} may return
\emph{false}.}

As you know from the lectures, if we construct two identical \lstinline{Point} objects and compare them
with the \lstinline{==} operator, the operator will yield \emph{false}, because the points being compared
are not the same object.

What happens if you construct two points, \lstinline{p} and \lstinline{q} with identical coordinates, and compare them by testing
whether \lstinline{p.equals(q)} holds?  Try it.  You should find that the result is also \emph{false}.  Why is this?

Implement \lstinline{Point} equality testing by overriding the \lstinline{equals} method from \lstinline{Object}.  Remember the
recipe for constructing a basic \lstinline{equals} method:

\begin{itemize}
\item Check that the incoming object has the right type, using \lstinline{instanceof}

\item If it does, cast the incoming object to this type

\item Compare fields
\end{itemize}

Test that your implementation works by confirming that a selection of identical points are regarded as being equal,
and that points with differing coordinates are not.

Now create two instances of \lstinline{ColouredPoint} that have identical coordinates, but \emph{different} colours.
Does your implementation of \lstinline{equals} regard these objects as being equal, and why does it behave in
this way?  If the \lstinline{ColouredPoint} objects are regarded as being equal then you should fix this by overriding
\lstinline{equals} appropriately in \lstinline{ColouredPoint}.

Finally, consider comparing a (non-coloured) \lstinline{Point} with a \lstinline{ColouredPoint.}  Construct a
\lstinline{Point} \lstinline{p} and a \lstinline{ColouredPoint} \lstinline{cp} such that \lstinline{p.equals(cp)}
holds, but \lstinline{cp.equals(p)} \emph{does not} hold.  In other words, demonstrate that the \lstinline{equals} relation you
have defined is not \emph{symmetric} in the presence of subclasses.  We will return to this issue in \questionref{symmetric}.

\end{question}
