[Back to questions](../README.md)

## 5566: *Exception-throwing stacks*

\begin{question}{Exception-throwing stacks.}\label{question:stack}
Consider the `StringStack` interface and `ArrayStringStack` and `ListStringStack` implementing classes you
created in Question 13 of Sheet 3.  (*Note:* if you have completed Sheet 4 then feel free to adapt this question to work with the
generic versions of the string stack classes.)

Recall that you were asked to implement the `pop()` operation so that if `pop()` is called on an empty stack, nothing
happens.  Similarly, for `ArrayStringStack`, which had maximum stack size of 100, your `push()` operation was supposed
to do nothing in the case that the maximum stack size had been reached.

A better solution to these extreme cases is to throw an exception.  Adapt your string stack classes and interfaces so that appropriate
exceptions (which you may wish to define yourself) are thrown by `push()` and `pop()` when a full and empty
stack is encountered, respectively.  Decide whether these exceptions should be *caught* exceptions, *runtime* exceptions
or *errors*.  Explain your choice, and the reason behind any changes you have to make to your string stack classes and/or interface.

Write a demonstration program that manipulates stacks in a manner that will cause these exceptions to be thrown.  Your program should
use `try` and `catch` to intercept these exceptions and display appropriate error messages.

There are some hints for this question at the end of the sheet.


**Hints:**  Popping an empty stack (respectively pushing on to a full stack) is reminiscent of accessing an array out of bounds: this is not
an *error*, as if the problem occurs it is the programmer's fault.  This problem should be checked for at runtime, but it would be extremely painful to require an application
to explicitly catch such stack exceptions each time a stack operation is invoked.  Thus the exceptions should not be *caught*.  Like `ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException` they should therefore be *runtime* exceptions.

Writing new classes for these stack exceptions provides maximum flexibility: it allows you to catch and handle these specific kinds of exception without
necessarily catching other exceptions which you would prefer to throw.  However, `java.util` already has an exception that may be suitable
for the case where a stack is empty.

