[Back to questions](../README.md)

## 5d30: *Unreliable buffered reader*

\begin{question}{Unreliable buffered reader.} \textbf{Disclaimer:} In this question, you are going to sabotage the behaviour of
class \lstinline{BufferedReader} by extending it with an unreliable subclass.  As with \questionsref{stack}{heap}, the purpose
of this is to provide more practice working with exceptions in Java.  Clearly you should never do something like this in practice!

Write a class \lstinline{UnreliableBufferedReader} which extends \lstinline{BufferedReader} from the \lstinline{java.io}
package.  An \lstinline{UnreliableBufferedReader} should have two fields: \lstinline{probabilityOfError}, of type \lstinline{double},
and a random number generator field of type \lstinline{Random}.

The constructor of \lstinline{UnreliableBufferedReader} should accept a \lstinline{double} parameter, and should assign the value
of this parameter to \lstinline{probabilityOfError} if it lies between 0 and 1 (inclusive).  Otherwise the parameter should be ``clamped''
into the range [0,1]: a negative value should result in \lstinline{probabilityOfError} being set to 0; a value greater than 1 should result
in \lstinline{probabilityOfError} being set to 1.  The random number generator should also be constructed.

Override the \lstinline{readLine} method of \lstinline{BufferedReader}.  Your overridden version of this method should invoke the superclass
method to read a line, storing a reference to the resulting string in a local variable.  Then our method should choose a random \lstinline{double}
between 0 and 1.  If the chosen double is less than \lstinline{probabilityOfError} your method should throw an \lstinline{IOException} with
the message: ``Error occurred on input stream''.  Otherwise, your overriden version of \lstinline{readLine} should return the line that was
obtained via the superclass call.

Write a demonstration class to illustrate that your unreliable buffered reader is ``working'' (i.e., not working very well!).  Your demonstration
program should repeatedly read lines from standard input using an \lstinline{UnreliableBufferedReader}, using a probability of your choice.
The program should terminate when five lines have been successfully read, at which point you should display the number of calls to
\lstinline{readLine} that were required.

An example session with your program might look like this:

\begin{scriptsize}
\begin{verbatim}
Attempting to read input from unreliable reader...
Hello
Successfully read input: Hello
Attempting to read input from unreliable reader...
Unreliable
Failed!
Attempting to read input from unreliable reader...
Unreliable
Successfully read input: Unreliable
Attempting to read input from unreliable reader...
Buffered
Failed!
Attempting to read input from unreliable reader...
Buffered
Successfully read input: Buffered
Attempting to read input from unreliable reader...
Reader!
Successfully read input: Reader!
Attempting to read input from unreliable reader...
Signing out.
Successfully read input: Signing out.
Took 7 attempts to read 5 lines from unreliable reader
\end{verbatim}
\end{scriptsize}

\end{question}
