[Back to questions](../README.md)

## 710c: *The consequences of overriding `equals`*

If all you did in \questionref{equality} was override \lstinline{equals} then you can run into some interesting problems.
The \lstinline{Object} class provides another method, \lstinline{hashCode}, which returns an integer derived from the object on which the method is invoked.
Java requires that \lstinline{hashCode} should return the same hash code for any two objects \lstinline{o1} and \lstinline{o2} such that
\lstinline{o1.equals(o2)} holds.  It is the programmer's responsibility to enforce this: if you override \lstinline{equals} then
you must also override \lstinline{hashCode} such that \lstinline{o1.equals(o2)} $\Rightarrow$ \lstinline{o1.hashCode()} \lstinline{== o2.hashCode()}.

Let us try creating a \lstinline{Set} of \lstinline{Point}s.  We write:
%
\begin{lstlisting}
Set<Point> pointSet = new HashSet<Point>();
\end{lstlisting}
%
to make such a set.  This gives us an object conforming to the \lstinline{Set<Point>} interface (the object's
\emph{apparent} type); the created object is actually a \lstinline!HashSet! (the object's \emph{actual} type).
A hash set permits efficient lookup by using an object's hash code to assign it to one of a number of \emph{buckets}.
Determining whether an object belongs to the set involves finding the bucket corresponding to the object, and then
looking through the bucket.  For the above to work, you must import \lstinline{java.util.HashSet} and \lstinline{java.util.Set}.

Demonstrate the problems that can ensue from this scenario by writing a Java program that creates two identical points \lstinline{p}
and \lstinline{q}, and adds \lstinline{p} to \lstinline{pointSet}.  Get your program to print a message confirming whether \lstinline{p.equals(q)}
holds (it should), and whether \lstinline{pointSet.contains(q)} holds.  The latter should \emph{intuitively} be true, but if you have not overridden
\lstinline{hashCode}, it will not.

Now override \lstinline{hashCode} in a manner that ensures that two equal points get the same hash code.  A high quality hash function should also try
to make sure that non-equal points get different hash codes whenever possible.  Writing a high quality hash code is challenging and interesting -- feel
free to experiment with this (there are a lot of good tutorials online on this topic) but any technically correct hash coding scheme is fine for this
exercise.  By \emph{technically correct}, I mean an implementation of \lstinline{hashCode} that satisfies:

\begin{lstlisting}
o1.equals(o2) => o1.hashCode() == o2.hashCode()
\end{lstlisting}
%
However you decide to implement \lstinline{hashCode}, confirm that it solves the problem you identified above: \lstinline{pointSet.contains(q)} should
become \emph{true}.

Now consider the \lstinline{ColouredPoint} class.  Is it necessary to override \lstinline{hashCode} in this class, given that
you have overridden \lstinline{equals}?  If not, is there any benefit to doing so?
