[Back to questions](../README.md)

## 845d: *Books and dictionaries*


Consider the following class, which represents a book:

\lstinputlisting{solutions/src/sheet3/question4/Book.java}

Write a class \lstinline{Dictionary} as a subclass of \lstinline{Book}. \lstinline{Dictionary}
should provide a constructor:
%
\begin{lstlisting}
public Dictionary(String isbn, String title, int pages,
			String sourceLanguage, String targetLanguage,
			int numDefinitions);
\end{lstlisting}
%
that constructs the dictionary, recording which language it can translate to and from
(e.g.~a Spanish-English dictionary), and the number of definitions the dictionary
contains.  \lstinline{Dictionary} should also override \lstinline{toString()} to
provide a string representation of all the object's details.

Now write a class \lstinline{Bookshelf} that can store books.  Books should
be stored in an object with apparent type \lstinline{java.util.List} and
actual type \lstinline{java.util.LinkedList}.  \lstinline{Bookshelf} should
provide the following methods:

\begin{lstlisting}
// Returns the number of books on the bookshelf
public int size();

// Adds a book on the left side of the shelf.
// Shifts all other books one position to the right
public void addBookOnLeftSide(Book b);

// Adds a book on the right side of the shelf.
public void addBookOnRightSide(Book b);

// Adds book in position i counting from the left, starting
// from zero, and shifts all other books one position to the right.
// Hence addBook(0, b) is equivalent to addBookOnLeftSide(b), and
// addBook(size(), b) is equivalent to addBookOnRightSide(b)
public void addBook(int i, Book b);

// Removes book from position i, shifting all books with position
// greater than i to the left
public Book remove(int i);

// Prints all details of books from left to right
public void printLeftToRight();

// Prints all details of books from right to left
public void printRightToLeft();
\end{lstlisting}

Write a program that constructs a bookshelf containing six books: two dictionaries
and four non-dictionaries, inserted in any order you wish, and prints the resulting
bookshelf from left-to-right, and then from right-to-left.

Finally, write a static method that takes a bookshelf parameter and rearranges the books
so that all the dictionaries are on the right.  This method should operate using
only the \lstinline{Bookshelf} interface given above: you should not need to add any
further methods to \lstinline{Bookshelf}, or directly access any fields of a \lstinline{Bookshelf}.
Extend your demo program to show this
method in action.
