[Back to questions](../README.md)

## 85bb: *String stack iterators*

An \emph{iterator} is an object that can be used to navigate through a collection, inspecting each element of
the collection.  For example, if we wish to display every element of a set of strings, we can write the following:
%
\begin{lstlisting}
void showSet(Set<String> s) {
	Iterator<String> it = s.iterator();
	while(it.hasNext()) {
		String x = it.next();
		System.out.println(x);
	}
}
\end{lstlisting}

We are more used to writing the following more convenient version:

\begin{lstlisting}
void showSet(Set<String> s) {
	for(String x : s) {
		System.out.println(x);
	}
}
\end{lstlisting}
%
but this is simply shorthand for the version that uses an iterator.

In this question, you will provide iterator facilities for your \lstinline{StringStack}
interface and implementing classes \lstinline{StringStackArray} and \lstinline{StringStackList}
of \questionref{stringstack}.

\vspace{1mm}\noindent\textbf{Step 1.} Create an interface, \lstinline{StringStackIterator}, that offers the following methods:

\begin{lstlisting}
public boolean hasNext();
	
public String next();
\end{lstlisting}


\vspace{1mm}\noindent\textbf{Step 2.} Add a new method to the \lstinline{StringStack} interface:

\begin{lstlisting}
public StringStackIterator iterator();
\end{lstlisting}

The idea is that, given an instance of type \lstinline{StringStack}, it should be
possible to retrieve a \lstinline{StringStackIterator} from the \lstinline{StringStack},
and then use this iterator to visit each element of the stack, from the top down.

You should now find that \lstinline{StringStackArray} and \lstinline{StringStackList} no
longer compile.  This is because they do not implement the \lstinline{iterator} method.

\vspace{1mm}\noindent\textbf{Step 3.}
In order to fix this, you need to create two new classes: \lstinline{StringStackArray}\lstinline{Iterator},
and \lstinline{StringStackListIterator}.  Both classes should implement the \lstinline{StringStackIterator}
interface.  Writing these classes is a little tricky, but once you have them, implementing
the \lstinline{iterator} method in \lstinline{StringStackArray} is straightforward: simply
return a new \lstinline{StringStackArrayIterator}; implementing \lstinline{iterator} in
\lstinline{StringStackList} is similarly straightforward.

So, how should you implement the iterator classes?  There are two choices:

\begin{enumerate}

\item Create a fresh class for each of \lstinline{StringStackArrayIterator} and \lstinline{StringStack}\lstinline{ListIterator}.
Let us consider the \lstinline{StringStackArrayIterator} case.

\lstinline{StringStackArrayIterator} should have a field of type \lstinline{String[]}: a reference to the contents of the stack.
In addition, this class should have a field of type \lstinline{int} that refers to the stack element that the iterator is currently
pointing to.  This should be initialised to the top of the stack.  This solution is OK, but it requires the internal details of
a \lstinline{StringStackArray} to be indirectly exposed to the separate \lstinline{StringStackArrayIterator} class, since a
\lstinline{StringStackArrayIterator} is constructed using the internals of a \lstinline{StringStackArray}.  More importantly,
this setup allows clients to construct instances of \lstinline{StringStackArrayIterator} \emph{independently} of any actual
\lstinline{StringStackArray}.  This doesn't really make sense.  The extent of this problem can be limited by making the
\lstinline{StringStackArrayIterator} only package visible.

\item Use \emph{inner classes}.  Again, let us discuss the ``array'' case; the ``list'' case is similar.
You can create a class called \lstinline{StringStackArrayIterator} \emph{inside} \lstinline{StringStackArray}.
This class can be declared \emph{private}, meaning that only \lstinline{StringStackArray} is aware of its
existence.\footnote{Recall that standard classes cannot be declared private -- this would make such a class
completely useless.  However, inner classes can be private, visible only to their enclosing classes; there
is a compelling case for this, as the iterator example illustrates.}  Only an object of type \lstinline{StringStackArray}
can create a \lstinline{StringStackArrayIterator}.  Every instance of \lstinline{StringStackArrayIterator} \emph{implicitly}
holds a reference to the \lstinline{StringStackArray} object that created it, and has direct access to (even private)
fields of this object.  This direct access allows you to implement the iterator methods without violating encapsulation.
Try it!

\end{enumerate}

If you are very confident with Java, try the inner classes approach.  If you not so confident, try the first approach
using standard classes.  Ideally, try both so that you understand the differences.

\vspace{1mm}\noindent\textbf{Step 4.}
Once you have implemented your iterators, implement \lstinline{toString} in each of \lstinline{StringStackArray} and
\lstinline{StringStackIterator}, so that the contents of the stack is represented as a string, with elements separated by commas.
You can use your \lstinline{StringStackIterator} interface to iterate through the stack in order to do this.

\emph{You should find that \lstinline{toString} looks exactly the same in both classes!}

\vspace{1mm}\noindent\textbf{Step 5.}
As a result, we can raise the implementation of \lstinline{toString} to a more abstract level.  Create an \emph{abstract}
class, \lstinline{AbstractStringStack} which implements the \lstinline{StringStack} interface.  Now change \lstinline{StringStackArray}
and \lstinline{StringStackList} so that instead of implementing \lstinline{StringStack} they \emph{extend}
\lstinline{AbstractStringStack}.  Now move the duplicate implementations of \lstinline{toString} into a single implementation
of \lstinline{toString} in \lstinline{AbstractStringStack}.

\vspace{1mm}\noindent\textbf{Step 6.}
Finally, write a \lstinline{Demo} class which constructs two stacks, displays them both, uses
\lstinline{transferStacks} from \questionref{stringstack} (which you should be able to copy into your new
\lstinline{Demo} class unchanged) to transfer one stack to the other, then displays them both.

Do you appreciate the power of abstract classes and interfaces here?  We are able to implement the algorithm
behind \lstinline{toString} \emph{completely independently} of the particular stack representation that is being used.

\vspace{1mm}\noindent\textbf{Advanced:} \emph{anonymous} inner classes.  Some software engineers argue that it is
wasteful to give names to very simple inner classes, such as iterators.  Furthermore, if an inner class is
supposed to have a \emph{single} point of creation, we may wish to enforce this.  Java supports the definition of
\emph{anonymous} classes.  This is where a nameless class is specified, and an instance of this class is immediately
created.  Because the class has no name, it cannot be instantiated from elsewhere.  If you are really on top of things,
then search online or in books for a tutorial on creating anonymous classes in Java, and rewrite your \lstinline{StringStackArray}
and \lstinline{StringStackList} classes so that the inner ``iterator'' classes are anonymous.
