[Back to questions](../README.md)

## 876b: *Generics and subclasses*

Consider the following classes:

\vspace{1mm}\noindent\emph{A.java}
\begin{lstlisting}
public class A {

}
\end{lstlisting}

\noindent\emph{B.java}
\begin{lstlisting}
public class B extends A {

}
\end{lstlisting}

\noindent\emph{Demo.java}
\begin{lstlisting}
import java.util.HashSet;
import java.util.Set;

public class Demo {
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    Set<B> setOfB = new HashSet<B>();
    Set<A> setOfA = setOfB;
  }
}
\end{lstlisting}

The last assignment produces a compilation error.  At first sight, this might seem odd: `B` is a subclass of `A` so, intuitively, `Set<B>`
should be a subclass of `Set<A>` and the assignment should be correct by virtue of polymorphism.  This, however, is not the case:
`Set<B>` is \textbf{not} a subclass of `Set<A>`.  Explain why this is not the case.

Adjust the last statement, changing the generic parameter `A` of `Set<A>` to something more relaxed.  There are two choices
here; you should pick the most specific possible choice.  You may find that the Java Generics
tutorial\footnote{http://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/extra/generics/} helps in figuring this out (and it is highly recommended that you
read this tutorial anyway).

\vspace{1mm}\noindent\textbf{Hint:} Assume for the moment that `Set<B>` is a subclass of `Set<A>` and that the mentioned assignment is correct.
Consider now the following operation:

\begin{lstlisting}
setOfA.add(new A());
\end{lstlisting}

This operation is syntactically correct, but can you see the problem that it would cause in our example?
