[Back to questions](../README.md)

## 888a: *Generic methods with streams*

The purpose of this question is to give you practice writing some static methods that use one or more *generic* parameters, and that also use streams.

1. **Immutable pair.** Write a generic class, `ImmutablePair`, with two generic parameters, `S` and `T` say, that allows the construction of an (`S`, `T`) pair, and retrieval of its first and second components.  Override `toString()` so that a pair is represented as a string of the form `(`*string representation of first element*`, ` *string representation of second element*`)`.

2. **Placeholder class.** Create a class, `Example`, to serve as a placeholder for the static methods you will write.

3. **Generic list concatenation** Recall the `concatenate` function from [question 68e6](questions/68e6.md), which had the signature:

    ```
    static List<Integer> concatenate(List<List<Integer>> lists);
    ```

   and returned the concatenation of the lists in `lists`.  Observe that there is nothing `Integer`-specific about the notion of concatenating lists.

   Write a version of `concatenate` that is generic with respect to some type `T`, and which takes a list of lists of type `List<List<T>>`, and returns a `List<T>` that is the concatenation of these lists.

4. **Zip lists of different lengths** Write a static method, `zip`, that is generic with respect to two parameters, `S` and `T`, and that takes two parameters, a list `first` of type `List<S>` and a list `second` of type `List<T>`.  The method should return a list of type `List<ImmutablePair<Optional<S>, Optional<T>>>`.  At each index *i* less than the minimum size of `first` and `second`, the result should have a pair of present optionals corresponding to the elements at indices *i* of `first` and `second`.  At each index *j* (if any) at least the minimum size of `first` and `second` and less than the maximum size of `first` and `second`, the result should have a pair consisting of one present optional and one empty optional; the present optional should be the value at index *j* of the input list, which must exist.

The `zip` function is not a good fit for using streams, so feel free to use a loop-based solution.  If you are interested in playing more with streams, then consider using the `IntStream.range()` method to get a stream of integers as long as the maximum size of the two lists, and then use `mapToObj` to map each integer to the appropriate pair, by `get`ting list elements when they are needed.

5. **Flattening pairs of optionals** Write a static method, `flatten`, that is generic with respect to two types, `S` and `T`.  The `flatten` method should take three parameters: a list, `maybePairs` of type `List<ImmutablePair<Optional<S>, Optional<T>>>`, an element `defaultS` of type `S`, and an element `defaultT` of type `T`.  `flatten` should return a list of type `List<ImmutablePair<S, T>>` such that:

  * if an element `s` of type `S` is present as the first component of the pair at index *i* of `maybePairs` present, the first component of the pair at index *i* of the result list is `s`, otherwise it is `defaultS`;
  * if an element `t` of type `T` is present as the first component of the pair at index *i* of `maybePairs` present, the first component of the pair at index *i* of the result list is `t`, otherwise it is `defaultT`.

 The idea is that the method *flattens* a list of pairs of optionals into a list of pairs, using the given default values wherever an empty optional appears.

 Try to write this method using streams, rather than loops.

6. **Writing a main method** Add a `main` method to `Example` that demonstrates your example methods in action on some example data.