[Back to questions](../README.md)

## 8a61: *Int set*



\vspace{1mm}\noindent**Step 1.**

Write an interface, `IntSet`, to represent a set of integers.
Your interface should support the following methods:

\begin{lstlisting}
// Adds the integer x to the set
public void add(int x);

// If the integer x belongs to the set, it is removed and 'true'
// is returned.  Otherwise 'false' is returned	
public boolean remove(int x);

// Returns true iff the set is empty	
public boolean isEmpty();

// Returns true iff the set contains the integer x
public boolean contains(int x);
\end{lstlisting}

\vspace{1mm}\noindent**Step 2.**
Now provide two classes that *implement* `IntSet`: `MemoryEfficientIntSet`
and `SpeedEfficientIntSet`.  The idea is that `MemoryEfficientIntSet` would
be suitable for representing large sets, using minimal memory but at the expense of slower
element lookup operations, while `SpeedEfficientSet` would be optimised for fast
element lookup, at the expense of requiring more memory.

However, in this question you do not need to implement these classes to *actually*
be memory/space efficient -- the distinction between these sets is for purposes of illustration
only.  Implement the two classes in any way which conforms to the
`IntSet` interface: if you wish you can use the same implementation for both,
and it is fine to realise these sets by delegating to classes in the Java Collections
framework.

\vspace{1mm}\noindent**Hint:**  A simple solution is for `MemoryEfficientIntSet` to
have a member of type `Set<Integer>`.  You can then implement `add()`,
`remove()`, `isEmpty()` and `contains()` in a very straightforward
manner by *delegating* these calls to the `Set<Integer>` member.  You can implement
`SpeedEfficientIntSet` similarly.  This may seem pointless: why not just use a `Set<Integer>`
directly?  Of course, it *is* pointless.  However, going through this process provides a solid
educational example of how classes and interfaces work.

\vspace{1mm}\noindent**Step 3.**
Write a `Demo` class with a static method:

\begin{lstlisting}
public static IntSet readIntegers(int n) throws IOException;
\end{lstlisting}

The `readIntegers` method should read $n$ integers from standard input.  If $n>10$ the
method should return a memory efficient set containing these integers, otherwise it should return
a space efficient set.  (You can assume that the integers entered are all distinct.)

\vspace{1mm}\noindent**Step 4.**
Write a `main` method which gets an `IntSet` by calling `readIntegers`,
where the parameter $n$ is given by a command-line argument.  On returning from `readIntegers`,
`main` should indicate which type of set has been returned.  After this, `main`
should repeatedly ask the user to enter an integer, in each case indicating whether the integer
belongs to the set.  When the user enters the ``end of input'' character, the program should terminate.

Assuming that `3` is given as a command-line argument, an interactive session with your
program might look like the following:

\begin{scriptsize}
\begin{verbatim}
Please enter an int:
10
Please enter an int:
20
Please enter an int:
30
Set is: class src.sheet3.question9.SpeedEfficientIntSet
Enter an int, to be tested for membership:
10
Set contains 10: true
Enter an int, to be tested for membership:
11
Set contains 11: false
Enter an int, to be tested for membership:
12
Set contains 12: false
Enter an int, to be tested for membership:
20
Set contains 20: true
Enter an int, to be tested for membership:
Goodbye!
\end{verbatim}
\end{scriptsize}
