[Back to questions](../README.md)

## 96df: *Tree nodes*

Consider the following implementation of a tree node, which can be used to build
a tree (a fundamental data structure in Computer Science):

[TreeNode.java](../solutions/code/tutorialquestions/question96df/original/TreeNode.java)

Each `TreeNode` can store an arbitrary object, which is called a *key*.
The type of the key is passed to `TreeNode` as a generic parameter `E`.  Note
that the `TreeNode` class allows the key and the children to be `null`.

Such an implementation of `TreeNode` is quite flexible as it allows each node in a tree
to have an arbitrary number of children, as determined at the time of the node's creation.
The problem, however, is that such an implementation might be quite inefficient.  In particular,
each *leaf* node of the tree will contain an empty `children` array.
If there are many leaf nodes in a tree, the memory
overhead introduced by the empty `children` array can become quite significant and
limit the applicability of the TreeNode data structure.
Furthermore, binary nodes (i.e., nodes with two children) are a
quite common type of node. Since binary nodes only require two
references to child nodes, storing an array (for only two references)
becomes a significant overhead.

In order to correct this problem, create a set of classes/interfaces that allow for an efficient
representation of leaf and binary nodes.  In particular, leaf nodes should not contain the `children`
array, and binary nodes should contain just two pointers instead of a pointer to the `children`
array.  Your classes should still allow a tree to contain nodes with different numbers of children.  For
example, a node with three children should be able to have a binary node as its first child.

See the end for a hint on how to structure this.

Write a demonstration program that builds a tree with a key type of your choice, containing a variety of types of nodes.

**Extension:**  Extend your classes with an implementation of `toString()`.
The `toString()` method should represent a node as: the string representation of the key, an opening `(',
comma-separated string representations of each child, followed by a closing ')'.

Can you manage to do this by implementing `toString()` in a *single* place?  See the end
for a hint.

Extend your demonstration to display the tree that you have built.

**Hints:**  Think about what field of the original `TreeNode` class
is common to *all* tree nodes, whether they are leaves, binary nodes, or other nodes.  It would make sense to place this field
in an abstract superclass, from which the specific tree node classes will derive.  You may wish to go further and write an *interface*
for tree nodes, which your abstract class can implement.

**Hint for extension:** You should be able to implement `toString()` in your abstract tree node class, using the
abstract methods `getChild` and `getNumberOfChildren` to navigate the structure of a tree node without knowing its
actual type.
