[Back to questions](../README.md)

## 9a9b: *Transposing tunes*

\begin{question}{Transposing tunes.}\label{question:tunes}
Assume you are writing a program that controls a musical synthesizer and that therefore needs to represent the structure of
\emph{tunes}.  The purpose of this question is to write some classes and interfaces to represent tunes, to which
\emph{notes} and \emph{rests} can be added.  It should be possible to iterate through a tune using Java's ``for-each'' construct.
Furthermore, it should be possible to \emph{transpose} a tune: raising or lowering its pitch by a given interval.  However,
transposition should be performed \emph{on-the-fly} using something called the \emph{decorator} pattern.  The question is
structured as a series of steps that will guide you towards a solution.


\vspace{1mm}\noindent\textbf{Step 1.}
Create an abstract class, \lstinline{TuneElement}, that will represent an element of a tune.
A \lstinline{TuneElement} can either be a \emph{note} (a period of music during which a particular tone is heard) or
a \emph{rest} (a period of silence).

A \emph{note} can be described by the following information:

\begin{itemize}
\item \emph{note name}, which is one of C, C\#, D, D\#, E, F, F\#, G, G\#, A, A\# or B

\item \emph{note octave}, which is an integer determining the octave of the note

\item \emph{note value}, which can be one of whole, half, quarter, eighth or sixteenth
\end{itemize}

Together, the note name and the note octave determine the \emph{pitch} of the note in the \emph{scientific pitch notation}.  For example,
the pitch of ``middle C'' is represented by a note with name C and octave 4.  The note value determines the duration of the note.

A \emph{rest} can be described by a note value, which determines the duration of the rest.

Create concrete classes \lstinline{Note} and \lstinline{Rest} which extend \lstinline{TuneElement} to represent notes
and rests.  You may wish to introduce enumerations for note names and values.

\vspace{1mm}\noindent\textbf{Step 2.} Next, Create an \emph{interface} called \lstinline{Tune}.  Implementations of
\lstinline{Tune} will encapsulate a collection of \lstinline{TuneElement} objects, and we would like to be able to iterate over
these using Java's ``for-each'' construct.  In other words, given a \lstinline{Tune} \lstinline{t}, we would like to
be able to write (for example):

\begin{lstlisting}
for(TuneElement e : t) {
  System.out.println(t);
}
\end{lstlisting}

For this to work, \lstinline{Tune} must \emph{extend} Java's \lstinline{Iterable} interface.  \lstinline{Iterable} is a \emph{generic}
interface; your \lstinline{Tune} interface should extend \lstinline{Iterable} with respect to the \emph{specific} type \lstinline{TuneElement}.
(See hint at the end of the sheet.)

\lstinline{Tune} should specify two further methods:

\begin{lstlisting}
// Add an element to the tune
void addTuneElement(TuneElement tuneElement);
	
// Return a tune derived from the original, transposed up
// three semitones
Tune transpose(int interval);
\end{lstlisting}


\vspace{1mm}\noindent\textbf{Step 3.} Implement \lstinline{Tune} with an \emph{abstract} class, \lstinline{AbstractTune}.
\lstinline{AbstractTune} should provide concrete implementations of two methods: \lstinline{toString()}, overridden from
\lstinline{Object}, and \lstinline{transpose()}, as specified by \lstinline{Tune}.

For now, you should make \lstinline{transpose()} simply return \lstinline{null}.  We will rectify this in Step 6.

You should implement \lstinline{toString()} by iterating over the \lstinline{AbstractTune} object, constructing a string
consisting of string representations of tune elements separated by spaces.
You may wonder how you can iterate over the tune elements in your abstract tune, since we haven't yet defined a data
structure that will represent these elements!  The trick is to exploit the fact that \lstinline{AbstractTune} implements
\lstinline{Tune}, which extends \lstinline{Iterable}.  See the end of the sheet for a stronger hint.

Turning tune elements into strings will involve overriding \lstinline{toString}
in your \lstinline{Note} and \lstinline{Rest} classes (and possibly also in enumerations you may have created).  A quarter-length
``middle C'' note should be represented by the string \lstinline{C-4(1/4)}.  A half-length rest should be represented as
\lstinline{Rest(1/2)}.  Other notes and rests should be represented similarly.  The well-known tune Fr\`{e}re-Jaques
starting on ``middle C'' would be represented as a string thus (with some line breaks added):

\begin{scriptsize}
\begin{verbatim}
C4(1/4) D4(1/4) E4(1/4) C4(1/4) C4(1/4) D4(1/4) E4(1/4) C4(1/4)
E4(1/4) F4(1/4) G4(1/2) E4(1/4) F4(1/4) G4(1/2)
G4(1/8) A4(1/8) G4(1/8) F4(1/8) E4(1/4) C4(1/4)
G4(1/8) A4(1/8) G4(1/8) F4(1/8) E4(1/4) C4(1/4)
C4(1/4) G3(1/4) C4(1/4) Rest(1/4) C-4(1/4) G3(1/4) C4(1/4) Rest(1/4)
\end{verbatim}
\end{scriptsize}



\vspace{1mm}\noindent\textbf{Step 4.} Extend \lstinline{AbstractTune} with a concrete class, \lstinline{PhysicalTune}.
\lstinline{PhysicalTune} should use a \lstinline{List} of \lstinline{TuneElement}s to represent the contents
of the tune.  It should also provide the following methods, required by the \lstinline{Tune} and \lstinline{Iterable}
interfaces respectively:

\begin{lstlisting}
public void addTuneElement(TuneElement tuneElement);

public Iterator<TuneElement> iterator();
\end{lstlisting}

Implementing these methods should be very straightforward.  Some hints are given at the end of the question.

\vspace{1mm}
\noindent\textbf{Step 5.} Now your task is to implement \emph{transposition} of tunes; that is, raising or lowering
all the notes in a tune by a given number of semi-tones.  For example, C4 raised one semi-tone becomes C\#4; A3 lowered two semi-tones
becomes G3; C2 lowered one semi-tone drops down into the previous octave to become B1; A4 raised four semi-tones jumps up to the next
octave and becomes C\#5.

One way to implement transposition would
be for the \lstinline{transpose} method to return a copy of a \lstinline{PhysicalTune} with each note transposed
by a given interval.  The problem with this approach is that the original and transposed tunes become totally separate.
If we add further notes to the original tune, this will not automatically be reflected in the transposed tune,
and vice-versa.

Your task is to represent a transposed tune as a ``view'' of an existing tune, so that if new notes
are added to either the transposed tune or the original tune, the result will be visible to both tunes.
This can be achieved by making a transposed tune hold a reference to the original tune from which it is derived.
Methods on the transposed tune are then implemented by delegation to the original tune, with appropriate modifications
to reflect the process of transposition.  Chaining objects together in this way is an example of using the \emph{decorator}
design pattern: we can say that a transposed tune \emph{decorates} a tune by transposing it.

Write a class \lstinline{TransposedTune} that extends \lstinline{AbstractTune}.  A \lstinline{TransposedTune}
should have two fields: a \lstinline{Tune} representing the tune to be transposed) and an \lstinline{int} representing
the interval of transposition.

The \lstinline{addTuneElement} method of \lstinline{TransposedTune} should work by adding an appropriate
tune element to the \emph{original} tune.  (See hint at the end of the sheet.)

The \lstinline{iterator} method of \lstinline{TransposedTune} should return an instance of a new class,
\lstinline{TransposedTuneIterator}, which you should create.  This class should implement \lstinline{Iterator<TuneElement>}.
You should work out how to implement the \lstinline{next()} method of \lstinline{TransposedTuneIterator}: this should retrieve
a tune element from the original tune, transpose it and then return it.  (See hint at the end of the sheet.)

\vspace{1mm}
\noindent\textbf{Step 6.} Now you can implement the \lstinline{transpose} method in \lstinline{AbstractTune}.  This method
should return a new \lstinline{TransposedTune}.

\vspace{1mm}
\noindent\textbf{Step 7.} Finally, write a short demo program to illustrate that this is working.
Experiment a bit: notice that it is possible to transpose a transposed tune!

In my demo program, I write something like this:

\begin{lstlisting}
Tune frereJaques = new PhysicalTune();
Tune frereJaquesTransposedUp = frereJaques.transpose(3);
Tune frereJaquesTransposedUpAnotherOctave = frereJaquesTransposedUp.transpose(12);
		
frereJaques.addTuneElement(new Note(NoteName.C, 4, NoteValue.QUARTER));
frereJaques.addTuneElement(new Note(NoteName.D, 4, NoteValue.QUARTER));
... // Remaining notes in Frere Jaques
frereJaques.addTuneElement(new Note(NoteName.C, 4, NoteValue.QUARTER));
frereJaques.addTuneElement(new Rest(NoteValue.QUARTER));

System.out.println("Frere Jaques:\n  " + frereJaques);
System.out.println("Frere Jaques up three semitones:\n  " + frereJaquesTransposedUp);
System.out.println("Frere Jaques up another octave:\n  " + frereJaquesTransposedUpAnotherOctave);
\end{lstlisting}

This leads to the following output (abbreviated a bit):

\begin{scriptsize}
\begin{verbatim}
Frere Jaques:
  C4(1/4) D4(1/4) E4(1/4) C4(1/4) ... C4(1/4) G3(1/4) C4(1/4) Rest(1/4)
Frere Jaques up three semitones:
  D#4(1/4) F4(1/4) G4(1/4) D#4(1/4) ... D#4(1/4) A#3(1/4) D#4(1/4) Rest(1/4)
Frere Jaques up another octave:
  D#5(1/4) F5(1/4) G5(1/4) D#5(1/4) ... D#5(1/4) A#4(1/4) D#5(1/4) Rest(1/4)
\end{verbatim}
\end{scriptsize}

\end{question}

\noindent\textbf{Hints for \questionref{tunes}.}

\vspace{1mm}\noindent\textbf{Step 2.}  This should do the trick:

\begin{lstlisting}
interface Tune extends Iterable<TuneElement> { ... }
\end{lstlisting}

\vspace{1mm}\noindent\textbf{Step 3.}  Because \lstinline{AbstractTune} implements \lstinline{Tune}, which extends \lstinline{Iterable<TuneElement>},
any concrete class that extends \lstinline{AbstractTune} is guaranteed to provide the functions of an iterator.  As a result, in your \lstinline{toString()}
method, you can iterate over \lstinline{this}, the \lstinline{AbstractTune} (which at runtime will be an instance of a concrete subclass):

\begin{lstlisting}
public String toString() {
  ...
  for(TuneElement t : this) {
    ...
  }
}
\end{lstlisting}

\vspace{1mm}\noindent\textbf{Step 4.}  You can implement \lstinline{addTuneElement} by simply calling \lstinline{add} on the \lstinline{List}
field that you are using to represent the elements of your tune.  You can implement \lstinline{iterator} by simply calling \lstinline{iterator}
on the \lstinline{List} field that you are using to represent your tune, and returning its result.

\vspace{1mm}\noindent\textbf{Step 5.} To implement \lstinline{addTuneElement}, you need to be able to translate a \lstinline{Note} into an equivalent
\lstinline{Note} whose pitch is increased or decreased according to the interval of transposition with which your \lstinline{TransposedTune} is
configured.  To do this, it might help to write two utility methods:

\begin{lstlisting}
// Uses the octave and note name components of a note to turn the
// note into an absolute pitch value
private static int noteToAbsolutePitch(Note note);
	
// From an absolute pitch value, works out the corresponding octave
// and note name, and returns a Note comprised of these and the given
// note value
private static Note noteFromAbsolutePitch(int pitch, NoteValue value);
\end{lstlisting}
%
(This assumes that you have used an enumeration, \lstinline{NoteValue}, to
represent the value of a note.  If you have done things differently then you'll
need to adapt appropriately.)

The \lstinline{TransposedTuneIterator} class can be an \emph{inner} class (preferred method),
or a standard class (fine if you are not too confident with inner classes).\footnote{If you wish, and
have the know-how, you
can make this an \emph{anonymous} inner class.}  This iterator
should hold a reference to an object of type \lstinline{Iterator<TuneElement>}, which should be
obtained from the \lstinline{TransposedTune}'s original tune:

\begin{lstlisting}
originalTuneIterator = originalTune.iterator();
\end{lstlisting}

\lstinline{TransposedTuneIterator} must implement the following methods, required by the \lstinline{Iterator}
interface:

\begin{lstlisting}
public boolean hasNext();

public TuneElement next();

public void remove();
\end{lstlisting}

You can implement \lstinline{hasNext()} and \lstinline{remove()} trivially by delegating to the original tune's iterator.

Implementing \lstinline{next()} is a little trickier: you should call \lstinline{next()} on the original iterator to get
the next note, then transpose this note up using \lstinline{noteToAbsolutePitch} and \lstinline{noteFromAbsolutePitch},
and return the result.
