[Back to questions](../README.md)

## b401: *Generic sets*

*Note:* if you had trouble completing [question 8a61](8a61.md), you should still be able to attempt this question by starting with the [question 8a61 sample solution](../solutions/8a61.md).

Replace the `IntSet` interface of [question 8a61](8a61.md), with an interface called `GenericSet`
that can hold elements of *any* given type, not necessarily integers.

Replace the implementing classes from [question 8a61](8a61.md) -- `MemoryEfficient``IntSet` and `SpeedEfficientIntSet` -- with generic classes
that mimic the original classes, but store elements
of an *arbitrary* type rather than integers.  Call these classes `GenericMemoryEfficientSet` and `GenericSpeedEfficientSet`.

Write a `Demo` class with a `Main` method that creates some sets, using various element types
and both set representations (memory- and speed-efficient).  Show that your generic sets implementation is working
by adding some elements to the sets, removing some elements, adding some more, etc., and interspersing this set
manipulation code with assertions checking that particular objects are or are not contained in the sets at given
program points.

In addition, re-write the method:

```
public static IntSet readIntegers(int n) throws IOException;
```

to return instead a `GenericSet` with element type `Integer`.  The method should behave
the same as before: if *n > 10* a memory-efficient set should be returned, otherwise a speed-efficient set.

As in [question 8a61](8a61.md), add to your `main` method so that a `GenericSet` of integers is
created by calling `readIntegers`,
where the parameter *n* is given by a command-line argument.  On returning from `readIntegers`,
`main` should indicate which type of set has been returned.  After this, `main`
should repeatedly ask the user to enter an integer, in each case indicating whether the integer
belongs to the set.  When the user enters the "end of input" character, the program should terminate.

See [question 8a61](8a61.md), for an example of what an interactive session with your program might look like.

When your program prints the type of set that has been returned, does it indicate what the generic parameter
is?  If not, why not?
