[Back to questions](../README.md)

## b4a5: *Observing the garbage collector*

Class \lstinline{Object} provides a method:

\begin{lstlisting}
public void finalize();
\end{lstlisting}
%
which is called when an object is garbage-collected.

A developer can override \lstinline{finalize} to do some house-keeping or sanity checking when an object is disposed of.  For example, \lstinline{finalize}
could be used to ensure that an object has released resources such as file handles before the object is deallocated.

Typically \lstinline{finalize} is used for defensive programming: to guard against unintentional errors (e.g., forgetting to close a file)
that may have occurred elsewhere in
the program.

In this question, we will use \lstinline{finalize} to observe the behaviour of the garbage collector.

\vspace{1mm}\noindent\textbf{Disclaimer:} This exercise is purely educational, to let you see the garbage collector in action,
and to get more experience writing simple Java programs.  You should \emph{never} write a real program that abuses \lstinline{finalize} in this way!

Write a class, \lstinline{A}, with a private \lstinline{int} field called \lstinline{id}.  \lstinline{A} should have a single constructor, which
should take an integer parameter used to initialise \lstinline{id}.

In addition, \lstinline{A} should have a package-visible static field, \lstinline{numCollected}, initialised to zero.

Override \lstinline{finalize} in \lstinline{A}.  Your implementation of \lstinline{finalize} should print a message, saying that the instance of \lstinline{A}
with id \lstinline{id} has been garbage collected.  After printing this message, the static field \lstinline{numCollected} should be incremented.

Finally, write a \lstinline{main} method that creates a million instances of \lstinline{A}, with increasing ids, in a loop, but does not assign any of these instances to a reference variable.  (To create but not assign a new instance of \lstinline{A}, you simply write a statement: \lstinline{new A(...);})

Run your program several times and inspect the output it produces.

What does this tell you about the garbage collector?  What guarantees are provided on how \lstinline{finalize} will be invoked?

\end{question}
