[Back to questions](../README.md)

## dc38: *Email management system*



Imagine you are designing an email management system that needs to manage email addresses.  There are two types of email address: an *individual* address, which identifies a single email inbox, and a *group* address which acts as a container for other addresses.  A group can be a member of other groups; furthermore, a (group or single) address can be a member of several groups.

Write a set of Java classes that models individual and group email addresses.  Your classes should fulfil the following requirements:

\begin{itemize}
\item Every email address (individual or group) should have an associated string identifier
\item Two email addresses should be regarded as equal if they have the same identifier.  Don't forget that if you override `equals()`, you must also override `hashCode()`
\item On construction, a group email address should initially have no members
\item It should be possible to add an email address to a group email address
\item All email addresses should support a method, `getTargets()`.  When invoked on email address `a`, this method should return the set of individual addresses to which an email addressed to `a` must be sent
\end{itemize}

First, assume that all group memberships are acyclic; that is, no group can contain itself (directly or indirectly) as a member.

Once you have a working solution for the acyclic scenario, write an extended version that will work even in the presence of cycles.

You should also write a demonstration program to show your classes in action.
