[Back to questions](../README.md)

## f763: *Simulating garbage collection*

\begin{question}{Simulating garbage collection.} \emph{Note:} This question uses the `GraphNode<E>` class given in \questionref{cloning},
but otherwise the questions are independent; you can do this one first if you like.

Garbage collection in Java can be understood by the following analogy:

\begin{itemize}

\item Java objects can be understood as instances of the `GraphNode` class from \questionref{cloning}

\item The fact that an object `o1` holds a reference to some other object `o2` can be understood as `o2` being a successor of
`o1`

\item The heap memory can be represented as a set of `GraphNode` object references

\item The \emph{active object roots}, i.e. those objects to which references are stored in the stack or static area, can be represented as
another set of `GraphNode` object references: a subset of the heap memory references

\end{itemize}

Implement a garbage collector method that is given two sets of `GraphNode` objects called `heapMemory` and `activeNodes`,
respectively, and that removes from the first set all objects that are not reachable starting from the second set.
You can assume that all of a node's successors are non-null.  It does not matter whether you use the original `GraphNode<E>` class of \questionref{cloning}
or the version you extended with a `clone()` method as part of \questionref{cloning}.

Test your implementation as follows:

\begin{enumerate}
\item Create a set of heap objects and a set of active object roots that is a subset of the heap objects.  Make sure the heap contains some unreachable
objects.  Since `GraphNode<E>` is a generic class, you will need
to choose a concrete type for `E`.  Use `Integer`, and set the key of each object to a unique id.

\item\label{enum:iterate} Iterate through the heap, displaying the key of each object followed by the key of all of the object's successors.  Also indicate those objects that are active.

\item Run your garbage collection algorithm.

\item Repeat step~\ref{enum:iterate}, which should demonstrate that the garbage is gone.
\end{enumerate}

An example of the output your program might produce is as follows:

\begin{scriptsize}
\begin{verbatim}
Before garbage collection:
  Heap contents:
    18 -> ()
    13 -> ()
    11 -> ()
    20 -> ()
    16 -> (17, 18)
    1 -> (2, 5)
    2 -> (3, 4)
    12 -> (13, 14)
    15 -> (16, 19)
    9 -> (10, 11)
    3 -> ()
    19 -> (20, 21)
    6 -> ()
    7 -> ()
    5 -> (6, 7)
    21 -> ()
    0 -> (1, 8) (ACTIVE)
    17 -> ()
    8 -> (9, 12)
    10 -> ()
    4 -> ()
    14 -> ()

After garbage collection:
  Heap contents:
    13 -> ()
    11 -> ()
    1 -> (2, 5)
    2 -> (3, 4)
    12 -> (13, 14)
    9 -> (10, 11)
    3 -> ()
    6 -> ()
    7 -> ()
    5 -> (6, 7)
    0 -> (1, 8) (ACTIVE)
    8 -> (9, 12)
    10 -> ()
    4 -> ()
    14 -> ()
\end{verbatim}
\end{scriptsize}

\end{question}
