[Back to questions](../README.md)

## f7c3: *Pig Latin*

An English word is translated into *Pig Latin* as follows: if the word begins with a consonant, this is moved to the end of the word and "ay" is appended to the word.  Otherwise
the word begins with a vowel, in which case "way" is simply added to the word.  Letters are re-capitalized appropriately to stick to standard English language rules, and punctuation, numbers and whitespace are left intact.  For instance, the following sentence:

> How are you on January 1st?  I am fine, thanks.

becomes:

> Owhay areway ouyay onway Anuaryjay 1st?  Iway amway inefay, hankstay.

This is actually a slight simplification of the true rules of Pig Latin: in practice, "consonant clusters", not just the leading consonant, should be moved to the end of a word, so that, e.g., "question" becomes "estionquay".  We will ignore this complexity, so that "question" is translated to "uestionqay".

Write a Java program that reads text from standard input and translates it into Pig Latin.  Reading from standard input can be performed as in question [2d33](questions/2d33.md).
Translating a single word into Pig Latin is quite easy.  The challenge in this question is in how to decompose lines of input into individual words.

**Hints:** The ```String``` class provides a ```substring``` method which you will find useful for this
question.  To correctly preserve capitalisation and punctuation in your solution, and to handle numbers, you may find the ```static``` methods
```isUpperCase```, ```toLowerCase``` and ```isDigit``` from the ```Character``` class useful.  Refer to the Java documentation
to learn more about these methods.
