[Back to questions](../README.md)

## Solution to [0378](../questions/0378.md): *Comparing people*

See code at `solutions/code/tutorialquestions/question0378`

For the `Person` class, have a look at the model solution code.  Do you understand the significance of `@Override` on the `toString` method?

The `PersonComparator` interface is simple: see the sample code.

The three concrete comparators, `SurnameComparator`, `ForenameComparator` and `TelephoneNumberComparator` are very similar: they simply compare the relevant `String` field.  I did this using the `compareTo` method provided by the `String` class; you might have implemented a dictionary-based comparison directly.  This is fine and educational, but in practical software development it is better to reuse an existing implementation if possible.

For the `findMin` method see the sample solution.  There's not much difficult about this; the key thing is that this method is *polymorphic*: it is a *single* method that works for *any* type of `PersonComparator`.

Inspect the sample code for the `TwoTieredComparator`.  It should make reference only to the `PersonComparator` interface.  The `Demo` code shows how this two-tiered comparator can be used, and how you can nest two-tiered comparators to build a three-tiered comparator.

The advantages of the compositional approach are:

* A smaller number of classes, meaning less code to maintain
* The possibility to combine comparators in arbitrary ways, not being restricted to the ways that were predicted at design time
* The possibility of being able to modify comparators at runtime by re-configuring them (this would be possible if a two-tiered comparator supported resetting the `first` and `second` fields)
* It is possible to write additional comparators and compose them with existing comparators

The disadvantages are:

* It might be that certain combinations of comparators would be undesirable.  With the compositional approach, arbitrary combinations are possible, including any that would be undesirable.  For instance, it would be very unusual in practice to compare people based on their first name, then telephone number, then surname.  With the compositional approach, this arrangement could be created by accident.
* It could be *slightly* more efficient to use a predefined multi-tiered comparator, as the compiler might be able to do a good job of optimising the class, given the complete picture of what the class should do.  Fewer optimisations are possible with the compositional approach.  However, I regard this as a negligible benefit, unless comparing people would be the bottleneck of an application.
