[Back to questions](../README.md)

## Solution to [1486](../questions/1486.md): *String stack*

See code at `solutions/code/tutorialquestions/question1486`

The `StringStackArray` class implementation is straightforward: see the sample solution.

The `StringStackList` class implementation is even more straightforward; perhaps so straightforward you may have
worried that you were missing something!  Look at the sample solution.  The only slightly tricky part is implementing `pop()`
so that the last element of the list is removed.

You will see in the sample solution that `StringStackArray` and `StringStackList` both implement
the `StringStack` interface.  Notice that the interface methods are declared public.  This is not actually
necessary, as they are *implicitly* public.  However, it does no harm.  The implementations of these methods in
`StringStackArray` and `StringStackList` must be declared public regardless.

See how simple the implementation of `transferStacks` in *Demo.java* is:

```
public static void transferStacks(StringStack dst, StringStack src) {
  while(!src.isEmpty()) {
    dst.push(src.pop());
  }
}
```

Because we have a `StringStack` interface, we can write this method purely in terms of the interface
type, regardless of the classes that provide actual types for `src` and `dst`.

The power of this is illustrated in `main`, where we can write:

```
StringStack first = new StringStackArray();
StringStack second = new StringStackList();
...
transferStacks(second, first);
```

Polymorphism here allows us to treat a `StringStackArray` and a `StringStackList` *uniformly*
as objects of type `StringStack` when we call `transferStacks`.  Note that it would also work if we wrote:

```
StringStackArray first = new StringStackArray();
StringStackList second = new StringStackList();
...
transferStacks(second, first);
```

In this case, the compiler *upcasts* `first` and `second` to `StringStack` when `transferStacks` is called.

Finally, if we want to change `StringStackList` to use a `LinkedList` instead of an `ArrayList`, we need only change:

```
elements = new ArrayList<String>();
```

to

```
elements = new LinkedList<String>();
```

in the constructor of `StringStackList`.
