[Back to questions](../README.md)

## Solution to [1ae9](../questions/1ae9): *Reusing immutable value objects*

See code at `solutions/code/tutorialquestions/question1ae9`

\begin{question}{Reusing immutable value objects.}  I have implemented \lstinline{makePoint} as follows:

\begin{lstlisting}
	public static Point makePoint(int coordX, int coordY, int coordZ) {
		Point p = new Point(coordX, coordY, coordZ);
		if(pool.get(p) != null) {
			return pool.get(p);
			// p will now be garbage collected
		}
		pool.put(p, p);
		return p;
	}
\end{lstlisting}

The first thing this method does is calls the constructor of \lstinline{Point} to make a new point.  So the approach does not prevent
lots of identical points from being created.  However, it \emph{does} avoid lots of identical points being stored forever.
The test: \lstinline{if(pool.get(p) != null)} checks whether \lstinline{pool} contains an entry of the form \lstinline{(first, second)}
such that \lstinline{p.equals(first)} holds.

If this is the case, the method returns \lstinline{second}.  As a result, there are no
references to the point that was referred to by \lstinline{p}, and eventually (though, as confirmed in \questionref{gc}, we do not know when)
the point will be garbage-collected.

Otherwise, the statement \lstinline{pool.put(p, p)} causes the entry \lstinline{(p, p)} to be inserted into the pool.  This means that
in future, if we call have a point \lstinline{t} with \lstinline{t.equals(p)}, the test \lstinline{pool.get(t) != null} will hold.
As a result, we will never permanently create another point that is identical to \lstinline{p}.

See class \lstinline{objectpool.Demo} for a demonstration that this solution really works.  

\end{question}
