[Back to questions](../README.md)

## Solution to [2d33](../questions/2d33.md): *Reversed order of input*

See code at `solutions/code/tutorialquestions/question2d33`

[ReversedOrderOfInputArray.java](code/tutorialquestions/question2d33/ReversedOrderOfInputArray.java) shows how this problem can be solved
using an array in the case where the maximum input size is 100.  Note that the
number 100 is represented as a local constant.

Check that you understand how the `BufferedReader` class is used in this
example.  (The beauty of encapsulation is that you don't need to worry about how
`BufferedReader` *works*, you just need to know how to *use* it.)

Notice that the condition for the `while` loop is:

```
line != null && counter < max
```

That is, the loop exits when the end of the input is reached *or* the maximum input size is reached.

[ReversedOrderOfInputStack.java](code/tutorialquestions/question2d33/ReversedOrderOfInputStack.java) shows how a `Deque` can be used to
eliminate the need for the input size to be bounded.  Of course, the input size is still
bounded: by the amount of memory available to the Java Virtual Machine!

Check that you are comfortable with the way generics have been used to construct a
`Deque` of strings.  The line:

```
Deque<String> dq = new ArrayDeque<>();
```

might look a bit mysterious at first.  You will be able to fully comprehend this in due course when
we cover *interfaces*.  Until then: `Deque` is an *interface* that is *implemented*
by `ArrayDeque`.  Thus we specify `Deque<String>` as the *apparent* type for `dq`,
but construct (using `new`) an instance of `ArrayDeque<String>`, which is the *actual* type
of `dq`.
