[Back to questions](../README.md)

## Solution to [336b](../questions/336b.md): *Evolving the Set interface*

See code at `solutions/code/tutorialquestions/question336b`

Compare your solution with the sample solution.

The default `addAll` method is straightforward:

    default void addAll(E[] items) {
      for (E item : items) {
        add(item);
      }
    }

From a performance point of view, its potential downfall is that it invokes `add` as many times as there are elements in `items`.  To see the problem, suppose that `items` has size *N* and the set to which these items is being added to is initially empty.  For the first few additions, the call to `add` in `addAll` will iterate over an empty or close-to-empty set.  But as the number of elements in the set (thanks to having added many elements from `items`) approaches *N*, each call to `add` for the final elements of `items` will require iterating through close to *N* existing elements, giving *O(N<sup>2</sup>)* time complexity.

This explains why, for `MemoryEfficientGenericSet`, the code in your `main` method should have performed so poorly before you implemented a specialised version of `addAll` for this kind of set, because `MemoryEfficientGenericSet` stores set elements in a list, and adding a set element involves iterating over this entire list to see whether the element is already present.

The more targeted implementation of `addAll` for `MemoryEfficientGenericSet` overcomes this problem by temporarily using a `HashSet`, for which adding and lookup of elements is very efficient, to decide which elements are not already in the set.  Using this hash set slightly goes against the memory-efficient intentions of the `MemoryEfficientGenericSet` class, but not too much since the hash set is only alive for the duration of the `addAll` method: it is not the case that every `MemoryEfficientGenericSet` needs to have an accompanying hash set alive at all times.

For the `asUnmodifiableSet` method, the sample solution shows the use of an anonymous inner class.  

A potential pro of using an anonymous inner class (beyond how much code you need to write), is that this class is *not* available to any other classes in your program.  If you write a separate class, `UnmodifiableGenericSet`, you can give this class package visibility so that it is visible only to the package that contains the `GenericSet` interface, but you cannot stop other classes in this package from being able to create their own `UnmodifiableGenericSet` instances.  The anonymous class approach makes it impossible for other code to create instances of the class, because the class has no name that could be used in conjunction with `new`.

This is also a potential con of the approach: there could be a case where you would *like* the class that implement an unmodifiable version of the `GenericSet` interface to be more broadly available, in which case it would need to be in a separate class.