[Back to questions](../README.md)

## Solution to [4c70](../questions/4c70.md): *Lottery numbers*

See code at `solutions/code/tutorialquestions/question4c70`

See sample solution in the source code archive.  [Lottery.java](code/tutorialquestions/question4c70/Lottery.java) provides the preferred solution.
This uses a method, `numberAlreadyChosen`, which checks whether a given `int` is
already located in an array, up to a given position.  The `main` method consists of a `while`
loop.  The body of this loop chooses a random integer in the range [1..49] and uses `numberAlreadyChosen`
to determine whether this number is unique.  See how `continue` is used to ensure that the `while`
loop does not exit until seven unique numbers have been chosen.

Observe that the numbers 7 and 49 are represented using *local constants*: these are fields declared `static`
(they exist once for the class), `final` (they cannot be changed) and `private` (so that they are not visible outside the class). Using constants in this way makes the code easier to read, and if we wanted to change
the number of lottery numbers, or their range, it would be very easy to do so.

[LotteryLabelledContinue.java](code/tutorialquestions/question4c70/LotteryLabelledContinue.java) is an equivalent implementation that makes use of Java's *labelled continue*
construct.  In this version, `main` consists of a nest of two loops.  The outer loop chooses a lottery number, then
uses the inner loop to check whether it is unique.  If the number is not unique, `continue chooseNumbers` causes
execution to immediately skip on to the next iteration of the outer loop.  This may appeal to any hackers among you!
