[Back to questions](../README.md)

## Solution to [5235](../questions/5235): *Equality between points*

See code at `solutions/code/tutorialquestions/question5235`

TODO: add content


\begin{question}{Equality between points.}\label{question:equality}
%
With a plain old \lstinline{Point} class, before overriding \lstinline{equals}, you should find that
comparing identical points represented by distinct objects with \lstinline{equals} yields false.
\lstinline{DemoWithoutEquals.java} gives an example of this.

Implementing \lstinline{equals} for points is straightforward using the recipe given in the lectures,
and repeated in the tutorial sheet.  See \lstinline{pointequality/Point.java} for the implementation.

The main method in \lstinline{pointequality/PointEqualityDemo.java} shows that having overridden
\lstinline{equals} for \lstinline{Point}, we now have a problem with \lstinline{ColouredPoint}.  Declaring:

\begin{lstlisting}
ColouredPoint cp = new ColouredPoint(1.2, 2.3, 3.4, Colour.Red);
ColouredPoint cq = new ColouredPoint(1.2, 2.3, 3.4, Colour.Blue);
\end{lstlisting}
%
we find that \lstinline{cp.equals(cq)} holds, even though these points have different colours.

To fix this, you were asked to override \lstinline{equals} in \lstinline{ColouredPoint}.  Look at
\lstinline{colouredpointequality/ColouredPoint.java} to see how this can be done.  Most interesting
is the last line of the \lstinline{equals} method:

\begin{lstlisting}
return super.equals(thatPoint) && colour == thatPoint.colour;
\end{lstlisting}
%
Notice that \lstinline{super} is used to check first whether the coloured points are equal when
regarded as plain old points.  Additionally, for them to be regarded as equal as coloured points,
their colours must match.

Finally, the asymmetry of \lstinline{equals} is illustrated in \lstinline{colouredpointequality/PointEqualityDemo.java}:
the last thing \lstinline{main} prints is:

\begin{scriptsize}
\begin{verbatim}
Points p = (1.2, 2.3, 3.4) and cp = ((1.2, 2.3, 3.4), Red) are equal
Points cp = ((1.2, 2.3, 3.4), Red) and p = (1.2, 2.3, 3.4) are not equal
\end{verbatim}
\end{scriptsize}

\end{question}
