[Back to questions](../README.md)

## Solution to [5566](../questions/5566): *Exception-throwing stacks*

See code at `solutions/code/tutorialquestions/question5566`

\begin{question}{Exception-throwing stacks.}\label{question:stack}
%
It is really the programmer's responsibility to ensure that he/she does call \lstinline{pop} on an empty
stack.  Thus in this case an \emph{uncaught} exception should be thrown.  In the solution, I have defined an exception class for this purpose:
\lstinline{StringStackUnsupportedPopException}.  This exception class extends Java's existing \lstinline{UnsupportedOperationException}, a class
used to capture all kinds of exceptions related to unsupported operations.  \lstinline{UnsupportedOperationException} extends \lstinline{RuntimeException},
i.e., it is uncaught.  Thus \lstinline{StringStackUnsupportedPopException} is also uncaught.

As for the case where the stack is full,
the decision as to what sort of exception should be thrown is not clear cut.  On one hand, we could argue that the exception should be \emph{caught} because the programmer does not know from the \lstinline{StringStack}
interface what the maximum stack size is, and thus cannot prevent the stack becoming full simply through good programming.  On the other hand,
we might argue that the exception should be an \emph{error} because, like a call stack overflow, little can be done to recover from this problem.
It does not seem sensible to make this exception \emph{uncaught}.

In the solution, I have defined a class, \lstinline{StringStackFailedPushError}, that extends \lstinline{Error}.

Because the string stack-related exception and error I have defined are uncaught, they do not need to be declared in the \lstinline{StringStack}
interface.  Look at the \lstinline{pop} methods in \lstinline{StringStackArray} and \lstinline{StringStackList} to see when a \lstinline{StringStackUnsupportedPopException} is thrown.  Observe that the first few lines of \lstinline{pop} are identical in each class.  It would
be best practice to extract this commonality into a single place -- think about how you would achieve this.

A \lstinline{StringStackFailedPushError} can be thrown by the \lstinline{push} method in \lstinline{String}\lstinline{StackArray}.

See \lstinline{Demo} for an example of these exceptions in action.

\end{question}
