[Back to questions](../README.md)

## Solution to [5981](../questions/5981.md): *Shapes*

See code at `solutions/code/tutorialquestions/question5981`

**An unforgivably bad design!** In the `baddesign1` package I show a very bad way
to model this problem in Java.  This design exploits the fact that both rectangles and ellipses are characterised
by a pair of fields: width and height for a rectangle, semimajor and semiminor axes for an ellipse.  The design
uses a single class, `Shape`, to represent all shapes.  The class has two `int` fields:
`first` and `second`.  For a rectangle, these represent width and height, respectively, while
for an ellipse they represent the semimajor and semiminor axes.  Hang on a minute?  Maybe for a rectangle, `first`
is *height* and `second` is *width*...I can't remember.  And how would someone reading my code know, other
than looking at some comment I may or may not have written?  A `Shape` is equipped with a type code field,
which is an enumeration that can be one of `Ellipse,` `Circle`, `Square` or `Rectangle`.
Using type codes usually indicates poor OO design, especially if you find yourself testing the type code to decide how a method
should behave.  (This indicates that each type code should correspond to a different subclass, and that you should be overriding
a (possibly abstract) method to provide different, separate, behaviours for each type.

**A poor, but forgivable, design.**
As hinted in the question, it is *not* a good idea to have a class `Circle` that
extends `Ellipse`.  This is for three reasons:

* If we create an `Ellipse` with equal semimajor and semiminor axes then we have actually created a circle, but the resulting object will not be an instance of `Circle`
* If we create a non-circular `Ellipse` and then change one of its axes to make it circular, the object will still be an instance of `Ellipse`, but not `Circle`
* Most drastically, if we create a `Circle` then, because a `Circle` is an `Ellipse`, we can then change e.g.~the object's semimajor axis to make it non-circular.  We end up with an object that is an instance of `Circle`, but is not circular!  We could try to overcome this problem by overriding `setSemimajorAxis` in `Circle` so that it correspondingly modifies the semiminor axis to keep
    the circular property.  However, this would break what is known as the *Liskov Substitution Principle*: for an `Ellipse` we can prove that the axes can be changed independently; the LSP says that we should also be able to prove this of `Circle`s, but our circularity-preserving hack would break this
    independence property

An analogous argument advises against making `Square` a subclass of `Rectangle`.  A design with this flawed approach is
presented in package `baddesign2`.

**A good design.**
The preferred solution is have an abstract `Shape` class, extended by `Ellipse` and `Rectangle`, and *not* to have
further `Circle` and `Square` subclasses.  Instead, provide
methods `isCircle()` and `isSquare()` that can be used to determine whether a shape is a circle or square.
There are two choices as to where to place these methods.  They could be abstract methods of the `Shape` that are overridden in
both `Rectangle` and `Ellipse`: `Rectangle` can simply return `false` for `isCircle`, while
`Ellipse` can test equality of semimajor and semiminor axes (similarly for `isSquare` with respect to `Ellipse`
and `Rectangle`).  This means that we can ask whether *any* shape is a circle or square, which is nice, but it does pollute the
interface of `Shape` with details of specific kinds of shape.
(Remember that the word *interface* is overloaded: here I am using it to refer to the public methods that `Shape`
 exposes, even though `Shape` is not a Java interface.)
The alternative
 is to declare `isCircle()` in `Ellipse` and `isSquare()` in `Rectangle`.  This avoids the pollution problem,
 but means that if we wish to find out whether an arbitrary shape is square, we must first find out whether it is a `Rectnagle` (using
 `instanceof`), and if so, cast it to `Rectangle` so that we can call `isSquare()`.

 As is often the case, there is no clear cut winner here.  In the sample solution, I have used the former approach.

**Another bad desgn.**  Package `baddesign3` shows *almost* the sample solution, but the designer has been over-enthusiastic
and tried to pull seemingly common fields of `Ellipse` and `Rectangle` into the abstract `Shape` superclass.  Taking
the "employ abstraction to remove duplication" principle too far, this designer has spotted that both `Ellipse` and `Rectangle`
are represented by a pair of integers, and has decided to pull this commonality up into the `Shape` superclass.  This is mistaken for three
reasons:

* The width of a rectangle represents something quite different to the semimajor axis of an ellipse.  Thus although they can both be represented
by an integer, they should not be represented by a common integer.  The name `widthOrSemimajorAxis` smells of this problem.

* If we decide to change the way we represent a rectangle then the coupled representation means that we need to consider the representation of an ellipse, even 
though this should be quite separate.  The solution does not use *encapsulation* properly: rectangles and ellipses are not encapsulated from one another.

* If we were to add additional shape classes, they probably would *not* share the feature of being represented by a pair of components (e.g., consider
how you would represent a hexagon).  Thus this solution is not *extensible*.
