[Back to questions](../README.md)

## Solution to [7206](../questions/7206.md): *Understanding references*

See code at `solutions/code/tutorialquestions/question7206`

The `main` method in [PrintBook.java](code/tutorialquestions/question7206/PrintBook.java) prints:

```
New C++ book(ISBN: 1)
Haskell(ISBN: 2)
```

You might be surprised that it does not print:

```
New C++ book(ISBN: 1)
Haskell(ISBN: 2)
Java(ISBN: 1)
```

The reason this is not printed is as follows.  When you add an object `o` to a `Set` `s` in Java,
the `Set` implementation first checks whether `s` already contains an object that is
equal to `o`.  This check for equality is implemented using the `equals` method.  Notice that in
the `Book` class, `equals` has been implemented (i.e., the default `equals` method provided
in the `Object` class has been overridden).  A `Book` is deemed equal to another object
if that object is also a `Book`, and if the books have equal ISBNs.  Importantly *books with the same ISBN are regarded as equal even if they have different titles*.  As a result, the line:

```
s.add(new Book(1, "Java"));
```

has no effect: set `s` already contains a book with ISBN 1, i.e. a book that is "equal" to `new Book(1, "Java")`.

This question also illustrates the use of object references.  The set `s` contains *references* to objects, not actual objects.
Thus when reference `b` is added to `s`, the reference `b` and a reference in the set `s` both refer
to the same `Book` object.  After the call `b.setTitle("New C++ book")`, when we display all the books referred to
by references contained
in `s`, we see the new title.

