[Back to questions](../README.md)

## Solution to [7ec8](../questions/7ec8.md): *Battling fighters*

See code at `solutions/code/tutorialquestions/question7ec8`

There are many ways you could model this question.
Take a look at my solution, check you understand it, and compare it with yours.

In my solution, I decided that dice rolling is the responsibility of the game engine,
not of a fighter, so I equipped `GameEngine` with a field `generator` of type `Random`,
used to generate random numbers.  In addition, I made an instance method, `rollDice()`, which uses
`generator` to generate a random integer between 1 and 6.
By making `generator` private, I ensure that clients of `GameEngine` *must*
use the `rollDice()` method to simulate dice rolls: they cannot access the random number
generator directly.  This means that I could use a different scheme for simulating dice rolling.
I could also easily modify `GameEngine` to log the number of times a dice has been rolled.
If `generator` was public, clients could bypass such a logging mechanism.

In the question, you were asked to reduce a fighter's stamina by 2 when a hit occurs.  In my
solution I have documented this by defining a constant, `DAMAGE_VALUE`, inside
`caclulateDamage`.  The constant is set to 2, and `calculateDamage` simply
returns `DAMAGE_VALUE`.  This is slightly preferable to simply returning the magic
number 2, because the named constant adds additional documentation stating the purpose of this
value.

Because `Fighter` needs to roll dice (e.g. in `calculateAttackScore`),
in my solution every `Fighter` has a reference to a `GameEngine` object.
In my solution, `Fighter` objects use a `log` method of `GameWorld`
to log the progress of their battle.  Currently, `log` is implemented by delegating
to `System.out.println`.  To have the progress of a battle displayed in some other manner,
(e.g., on a web page) all I would need to do would be re-implement `log` in `GameWorld`.

While we will have multiple instances of `Fighter`, we might wish there to be a
*single* `GameEngine` object.  This could be achieved using the *singleton*
pattern, as described in the lectures.  Can you extend your or my solution to use the singleton
pattern, ensuring that it is not possible to create multiple game worlds?
