[Back to questions](../README.md)

## Solution to [85bb](../questions/85bb): *String stack iterators*

See code at `solutions/code/tutorialquestions/question85bb`

TODO: add content

\begin{question}{String stack iterators.}\label{question:stringstackiterators}

The tricky part of this question is Step 3 -- implementing the iterator classes.  I have provided three solutions:

\begin{itemize}

\item Package \lstinline{noinnerclasses} shows how this can be realised without using inner classes.  Look at \emph{StringStackArrayIterator.java}.
You'll see that instances of this class are constructed by passing in the internals of a \lstinline{StringStackArray}.  Look at the way I have used
\lstinline{current} to point to the next element of the stack that should be returned by the iterator.  As noted in the sheet, the disadvantages of this
approach are that it allows the creation of \lstinline{StringStackArrayIterator}s that do not correspond to any string stack (e.g., one can simply write: \lstinline{new StringStackArrayIterator(new String[10], 4)}),
and that passing the internals of a \lstinline{StringStackArray} in the constructor somewhat breaks encapsulation: it means that the independent class \lstinline{StringStackArrayIterator}
is dependent upon the representation used in \lstinline{StringStackArray}.

\item Package \lstinline{innerclasses} shows how the iterator classes can be realised as \emph{inner} classes of \lstinline{StringStackArray} and \lstinline{StringStackList}.
In \emph{StringStackArray.java}, notice that we declare:

\begin{lstlisting}
private class StringStackArrayIterator implements StringStackIterator ...
\end{lstlisting}

This class is private, meaning that it is only visible inside \lstinline{StringStackArray}.  In the constructor, notice that we can write:

\begin{lstlisting}
private StringStackArrayIterator() {
	current = stackPointer - 1;
}
\end{lstlisting}
%
That is, we can refer to the \lstinline{stackPointer} field of \lstinline{StringStackArray}.  This is because every \lstinline{StringStackArrayIterator} instance will have an
associated \lstinline{StringStackArray}.

This solution solves the visibility and encapsulation problems associated with having a separate class for each iterator.

\item Package \lstinline{anonymousinnerclasses} uses \emph{anonymous} inner classes to represent the iterator classes.  This corresponds to the textbf{Advanced} part of the question.
Compare the inner classes version with the
anonymous inner classes version to get a feeling for how this works.  Using an anonymous inner class means that instances of the class can only be instantiated at the
specific point where the anonymous class is declared.  This can be advantageous if a single point of instantiation is what you want.

\end{itemize}

Whichever solution you look at, look into the \lstinline{AbstractStringStack} class to see that we can implement \lstinline{toString()}
\emph{completely abstractly} by using the iterator facilities that a \lstinline{StringStack} is now guaranteed to provide!

\end{question}
