[Back to questions](../README.md)

## Solution to [8d24](../questions/8d24.md): *Lucky battling fighters*

See code at `solutions/code/tutorialquestions/question8d24`

As with [the solution to 7ec8](7ec8.md), compare your solution with mine.  I decided to model
the three strategies using an enumeration:

```
public enum Strategy {
  AGGRESSIVE, DEFENSIVE, AVERAGE
}
```

A `Fighter` is equipped with a `strategy` field of this type.  The implementations
of `takeDamage` and `calculateDamage` have been adjusted to use luck to
resist, or inflict more, damage, depending on the fighter's strategy.

For the `Average` strategy, I decided that a `Fighter` should test their luck if their
stamina has dropped below half of its original value.  For this to work, I added an `initialStamina`
field to `Fighter`.  I made this field `final`, because it should not change after
a `Fighter` has been created.

In `takeDamage`, I have defined two constants, `AGGRESSIVE_RESISTANCE_THRESHOLD`
and `AVERAGE_RESISTANCE_THRESHOLD`, which are used to decide when an aggressive or average
fighter will test their luck in order to reduce inflicted damage.  These constants make it easier to
understand the calculations my code is making, and would make it trivial to change these thresholds.

Similarly, in `calculateDamage` I have defined two constants, `AGGRESSIVE_MULTIPLIER`
and `MISS_PENALTY` which record the multiple by which damage should be increased, or the amount
by which damage should be reduced, when luck testing is successful and unsuccessful, respectively.
