[Back to questions](../README.md)

## Solution to [96df](../questions/96df.md): *Tree nodes*

See code at `solutions/code/tutorialquestions/question96df`

In my solution I define a `TreeNode` interface specifying the methods that all tree nodes should support:

[TreeNode.java](../solutions/code/tutorialquestions/question96df/solution/TreeNode.java)

I then define an abstract class, `AbstractTreeNode`, that implements this interface and specifies
data and behaviour that should be the same for all tree nodes:

```
public abstract class AbstractTreeNode<E> implements TreeNode<E> {

  private E key;
  
  @Override
  public final E getKey() {
    return key;
  }
  
  @Override
  public final void setKey(E key) {
    this.key = key;
  }
}
```

Notice that here I have made the `getKey` and `setKey` methods final: `Abstract``TreeNode`
defines these methods once and for all.

I have not specified in this class how a node's children should be represented, nor have I provided implementations for
`getNumberOfChildren`, `getChild` or `setChild`, which are required by the `TreeNode`
interface.  These methods are implicitly declared *abstract* in `AbstractTreeNode`.

Class `BinaryTreeNode` extends `AbstractTreeNode` to define the behaviour of a tree node that has
two children.  The class declares two fields, one for each child:

```
private TreeNode<E> firstChild;
private TreeNode<E> secondChild;
```

In addition, the `BinaryTreeNode` class implements the `getChild`, `setChild` and `getNumberOfChildren` methods.  The implementations
of these methods are straightforward.  For example, `getNumberOfChildren` simply returns the integer 2.

`LeafNode` is a similarly simple class to represent nodes that have no children.  Notice that the `getChild`
and `setChild` methods of this class use `assert false` to cause execution to abort if they are called.

Alternatively (and preferably) these methods could throw a runtime exception, e.g., an `UnsupportedOperationException`.
This would be preferable because a) assertion checking only happens if `-ea` is specified as a JVM argument, and b)
after throwing an exception there is no need for the method to return a value.  This in `getChild`, we can simply write:

`throw new UnsupportedOperationException();`

instead of the less elegant:

`assert false; return null;`.

Nodes that are not binary or leaf nodes are represented by the class `Arbitrary``TreeNode`, which extends `AbstractTreeNode`
and provides the node representation and operations as shown in the original `TreeNode` class.  

**Extension:**  See the sample solution for an implementation of `toString()` in `AbstractTreeNode`.
This illustrates the power of abstract classes: we can write an algorithm to turn an arbitrary tree node into a string, even though the (direct and indirect)
children of the tree node may have different runtime types.

