[Back to questions](../README.md)

## Solution to [9a9b](../questions/9a9b): *Transposing tunes*

See code at `solutions/code/tutorialquestions/question9a9b`

TODO: revise for just this question: Questions~\ref{question:cloning}--\ref{question:tunes} were broken down into steps and accompanied by various hints in the tutorial sheet.  Look back at these
steps and hints, and see how the questions have been implemented in the sample source code solutions.  Here are just a few
further notes on each question.

You will probably learn a lot by carefully studying the source code solution to this question.  Here are a couple of fairly minor additional
notes:

In the \lstinline{NoteName} enumeration, notice that notes like \lstinline{C#} are represented by identifiers like \lstinline{C_SHARP}.
This is because \lstinline{#} cannot be used as part of a Java identifier.  However, to allow note names to be printed nicely, I have
overridden \lstinline{toString} in \lstinline{NoteName}, so that an enumeration value is turned into an appropriate string.

Because all tune elements, whether notes or rests, have a value, my abstract \lstinline{TuneElement} class declares a field of type
\lstinline{NoteValue}.  Notice that subclass \lstinline{Rest} does not add any further fields, or any behaviour other than providing a
\lstinline{toString} implementation.  You might be tempted to get rid of \lstinline{Rest}, and make \lstinline{TuneElement} concrete:
using a plain old \lstinline{TuneElement} to represent a rest, and a more specific \lstinline{Note} for a note.  However, I feel the
code is easier to understand if we provide an explicit \lstinline{Rest} class.

\end{question}
