[Back to questions](../README.md)

## Solution to [a22c](../questions/a22c): *No duplicate email addresses*

See code at `solutions/code/tutorialquestions/questiona22c`

In package \lstinline{checkforduplicates} I have defined an exception class:

\begin{lstlisting}
DuplicateEmailAddressException
\end{lstlisting}

This class extends \lstinline{Exception}, meaning that it is a \emph{checked} exception.

I have equipped the \lstinline{EmailAddress} class with a static field:

\begin{lstlisting}
private static Set<String> pastIdentifiers = new HashSet<String>();
\end{lstlisting}
%
storing identifiers that have previously been used in email addresses.  The constructor of \lstinline{EmailAddress} first checks whether the given
identifier is in this set.  If it is, a \lstinline{DuplicateEmailAddressException} is thrown.  As a result, the signature of the \lstinline{EmailAddress}
constructor is:

\begin{lstlisting}
public EmailAddress(String identifier) throws DuplicateEmailAddressException;
\end{lstlisting}

 \noindent Because the constructors of \lstinline{IndividualEmailAddress} and \lstinline{GroupEmailAddress} both call the constructor of \lstinline{EmailAddress}, these constructors are also declared as throwing \lstinline{DuplicateEmailAddressException}.

\lstinline{Demo} shows this exception being thrown in practice: the identifier \lstinline{wayne@doc.ic.ac.uk} is used in the creation of two different
email addresses.

\vspace{1mm}\noindent\textbf{Advanced:} The package \lstinline{checkforcycles} includes another exception class:

\begin{lstlisting}
CyclicEmailGroupException
\end{lstlisting}

This is an \emph{uncaught} exception (a.k.a.~a \emph{runtime} exception), because a good programmer should simply be careful not to create cyclic email group relationships.  It would be a pain
to have to enclose \emph{all} email address operations in \lstinline{try...catch} blocks simply because of the possibility of cycles being introduced.

The \lstinline{addEmailAddress} method of \lstinline{GroupEmailAddress} uses helper method \lstinline{reaches} to determine whether the email address
being added to the group itself contains a chain of email addresses that includes the group.  Inspect \lstinline{reaches} and check that you understand it.
If \lstinline{reaches} returns \lstinline{true} then adding this email address would create a cycle, so instead a \lstinline{CyclicEmailGroupException} is added. \lstinline{Demo} provides an illustration of this exception being thrown in practice.

\end{question}
