[Back to questions](../README.md)

## Solution to [aa68](../questions/aa68.md): *Symmetric equality testing*

See code at `solutions/code/tutorialquestions/questionaa68`

[This online tutorial](https://www.artima.com/lejava/articles/equality.html) illustrates a very clever trick.  We equip `Point`
with a method, `canEqual`, which tells us the conditions an object must satisfy for it to even be *considered*
as being `equal` to a `Point`.  In the case of a `Point`, the condition is that the given object
should be an instance of `Point`.  Thus we implement `canEqual` as follows:

```
public boolean canEqual(Object that) {
  return that instanceof Point;
}
```

Now in the `equals` method of `Point`, we test whether the incoming object is an instance of `Point` as before
(except that to avoid duplication, we do this by calling `canEqual`).  Then we cast the incoming object to a `Point`, and
ask whether it *can equal* the `Point` on which `equals` is being invoked.  If this test succeeds, we conclude by comparing
fields as before.

Checking `canEqual` in both directions is what allows us to restore the *symmetric* property that we require `equals`
to satisfy.  In `ColouredPoint` we *override* `canEqual`, strengthening the criterion to being an instance of
`ColouredPoint`, not just of `Point`:

```
@Override
public boolean canEqual(Object that) {
  return that instanceof ColouredPoint;
}
```

Note that it is *usually* bad practice to override a method and make no reference to `super`.  This is an exception (though note that if the overridden version of `canEqual` returns *true*, the superclass version would be guaranteed to do the same).

The implementation of `equals` in `ColouredPoint` is now adapted analogously to how `equals` was adapted for `Point`: we check that the `ColouredPoint` on which `equals` is being invoked `canEqual` the incoming object.  We then cast the incoming object to a `ColouredPoint` and test superclass equality.  Due to the way we implemented `equals` in `Point`, this superclass call will test whether this `ColouredPoint` `canEqual` the `ColouredPoint` on which `equals` is being invoked.  Finally, we compare on the `colour` fields, as before.

The crucial missing property that `canEqual` has added is that if we compare a plain old `Point` with a `ColouredPoint` we are *guaranteed* to get the result `false`.  Thus the asymmetry identified in [question 5235](../questions/5235.md) cannot occur.
