[Back to questions](../README.md)

## Solution to [d363](../questions/d363.md): *Bloated person*

See code at `solutions/code/tutorialquestions/questiond363`

As in [the solution to c2b8](c2b8.md), the clue is in the name.  The problem is that
`Person` should be composed of objects from a number of different classes,
rather than being "bloated" with a flat list of fields.  You can see that the fields of `Person`
are divided into several *data clumps* -- the fields associated with the person's name,
the fields for their address, the fields for their date of birth, and their national insurance
number field.  These data clumps should be extracted into their own classes, one per clump.

There are some deliberate mistakes in `Person`, but I hope you agree that it would
be very easy to genuinely make these mistakes with the flat design.  In the constructor, the `dayOfBirth`
field gets the value of the `houseNumber` parameter, and the `postCode` and
`nationalInsuranceNumber` fields are each initialised using the parameter intended for
the other.

In the sample solution, classes `Name`, `Address`, `Date` and `NiNumber`
have been created.  After fixing the bugs in `Person`, this class has been refactored to make
use of these classes.  The `Person` class is now much easier to read.  The chances of making a mistake
in the constructor assignments are vastly reduced: to see this, think about what you would have to write to
swap post code with national insurance number in the solution.

The various methods of `Person` have been distributed to the classes that should be responsible
for providing these services.  For example, `getInitials` now belongs to `Name`.

The original `toString` method of `Person` has been distributed across the new classes:
for each class, `toString` has been implemented appropriately, and `Person`'s `toString`
works by (implicitly) calling `toString` on the `Person`'s fields.

Also notice that the `sameAddress` of `Person` now simply calls the `equals` method of
`Address`, which has been implemented appropriately (overriding the `equals` method of `Object`).

You may wonder why I made a class `NINumber`, instead of simply using a `String`.  This is to guard
against accidental assignment of a `String` that does not represent a national insurance number to the
national insurance number field of a `Person`.
